CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 22-04, passed 2-1-22
State legislation current through April 6, 2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:_http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1217,1981
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO,
RECODIFYING, RENUMBERING, REVISING, AND REARRANGING SECTIONS OF THE CODE OF
GENERAL ORDINANCES AND OTHER EXISTING ORDINANCES OF THE CITY, ADDING NEW
MATTER, REPEALING VARIOUS ORDINANCES; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present Code of General Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio
is inadequately arranged in regard to titles, topics, and subject matter, with
some sections insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation
of the public peace, health, safety, and welfare of the City, and for the
proper conduct of its affairs, and,
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Company, in cooperation with the City
Law Department, has completed the recodifying, renumbering, revising, and
rearranging of the General and Permanent Ordinances of the City in printed form
pursuant to an Agreement with that company; and,
   WHEREAS, in the interest of certainty with respect to Ordinance provisions
and to comply with law, it is deemed necessary forthwith to publish a
recodification, renumbering, revision, and rearrangement of said Ordinances in
book form known as the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio"; NOW
THEREFORE,
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF
ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING:
Section1. The General and Permanent Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio as
revised, rearranged, recompiled, and renumbered as to title, chapter, and
section, and recodified in a form the same as that on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council, are hereby approved, adopted and enacted, and the same shall
be printed and published in book form as provided in O.R.C. 731.23; and, when
so printed and published in book form and certified as correct by the Clerk of
Council and the Mayor, shall be admitted in evidence and accepted by the Courts
and all persons as to the existence, effectiveness, and regularity of all
enactments so published in said book form as of the effective date designated
below.
   One copy of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, certified
as to correctness, shall be kept in its initial form on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council. In addition, the Clerk shall keep a complete master copy
of the Code of Ordinances, in book form, said master copy to consist of the
Code of Ordinances, and all amending and supplemental Ordinances.
Section2. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, may be amended
or supplemented at any time; and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted
in such form as to indicate the intention of Council to make the same a part of
the Code of Ordinances, such amendments or supplements shall be incorporated
in, and deemed a part of, the Code of Ordinances, so that any reference to the
Code of Ordinances shall be understood and construed as including the initial
edition of the Code of Ordinances and any and all supplements and amendments
thereto.
Section3. The Code of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, shall contain
all the provisions of a general and permanent nature pertaining to the subject
therein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances, parts of ordinances and
sections of the Code of Ordinances in force on October 27, 1981, which are
incorporated in or pertain to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the Code
of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, are hereby repealed as of 12:01
a.m., Eastern Standard Time.
Section 4. The repeal of Ordinances and Code of Ordinance Sections as provided
in Section 3, shall not affect:
      (1)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Revised
Code of General Ordinances;
      (2)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the date of
adoption of this Ordinance;
      (3)   Any Ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of any money to or by the City, authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes
of the City or any other evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract
or obligation assumed by the City;
      (4)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of this Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the Code of Ordinances;
      (5)   Any right or franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution of
this Council to any person or corporation;
      (6)   Any ordinance naming, relocating, or vacating any streets or public
way, or any ordinance identifying stop streets at intersections, one-way
streets, or any other traffic regulations;
      (7)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes, assessments, or charges;
      (8)   Any ordinance fixing salaries, wage rates, fringe benefits, or
other emoluments or compensation of the City officers and employees;
      (9)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to the adoption of this ordinance;
      (10)   Any ordinance which may be adopted by this Council after the 27th
day of October, 1981.
Section 5. The Clerk shall be responsible for integrating the amendments and
supplements to the Code of Ordinances, as the published editions arrive.
Section 6. For reasons stated in the preamble hereto, this Ordinance is
declared to be an emergency Ordinance and shall take effect and be in full
force and effect immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor.
Passed: October 27, 198l
                                 Richard L.Campbell
                                 President of Council
Approved: October 27, 1981
                                 Louis E. Bon Holle
                                 Mayor
Attest:
Michael N.Mastruserio
Clerk of Council
   CERTIFICATE
I, Michael Mastruserio, Clerk of Council of the City of Cheviot, do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance was published in the Western Hills Press,
a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Cheviot, Ohio on January 20
and January 27, 1982.
                                 Michael N.Mastruserio
                                 Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 1460, 1989
ORDINANCE ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO
RECODIFYING, RENUMBERING, REVISING AND REARRANGING EXISTING ORDINANCES OF THIS
CITY, ENACTING ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AND REPEALING VARIOUS ORDINANCES AND
SECTIONS THEREOF
   WHEREAS, the ordinances of this City are voluminous and it is difficult on
occasion to locate certain material when needed, and
   WHEREAS, this Council has hired the American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, Ohio, to recodify, rearrange and renumber the general and permanent
ordinances of this City, and
   WHEREAS, this Council has had the opportunity to review this codification in
manuscript form, and
   WHEREAS, a final version of this Code of Ordinances has been prepared and
presented to this Council.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE
OF OHIO:
Section 1. That the general and permanent ordinances of this City as published
by the American Legal Publishing Company and certified as official by the Clerk
of this Council under the general titles of General Provisions, Administration,
Public Works, Traffic, General Regulations, Business, General Offenses, Land
Use and Special Ordinances be and the same are hereby enacted as the Codified
Ordinances of Cheviot, Ohio.
Section 2. That all revisions, rearrangements and renumbering of existing
ordinances as are contained in this codification are hereby adopted as
ordinances of this City.
Section 3. The Code of Ordinances, consisting of the various titles as
hereinbefore and therein designated, and all provisions thereof, shall take
effect and be in force, at, on and after October 4, 1989.
Section 4. The Code of Ordinances may be amended or supplemented at any time
and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in such form as to indicate
the intention of this Council to make the same a part thereof, such amendment
or supplement shall be incorporated in, and deemed a part of, the Code of
Ordinances so that any reference to the Code of Ordinances shall be understood
and construed as including the Code of Ordinances, and any and all such
amendments and supplements thereto.
Section 5. All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the Code of
Ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan hereby and therein adopted. Each title shall be subdivided into
chapters, and each chapter shall be subdivided into sections.
Section 6. This adopting ordinance, the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Cheviot, Ohio, hereby adopted and any and all amendments and supplements which
may be adopted shall be known and referred to as the Code of Ordinances of
Cheviot, Ohio.
Section 7. The Clerk of this Council shall keep a complete master copy in book
form and in connection therewith or attached thereto in such form and manner as
he or she may determine to be most easily available for most easy reference, a
copy of all amendments and supplements bearing such title, chapter or section
designations as may be proper.
Section 8. In the interpretation of any provision of the Code of Ordinances, or
of any ordinance amending or supplementing the same, general terms, phrases,
and expressions therein shall be liberally construed so as to carry out the
intent and meaning of this Council, and shall have the meaning commonly
ascribed thereto, unless a different meaning is required by the context or to
give effect to such ordinances.
The headings of sections contained in the Code of Ordinances shall be printed
in all capital letters, and in case of conflict between such heading and the
contents of any section, the contents of the section shall control,
notwithstanding such headings.
Section 9. Each section and each part of each section of the Code of Ordinances
is hereby declared to be an independent section or part of a section and
notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared
to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or part of a
section, or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances, is held to be invalid, the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstances, other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that
the Code of Ordinances would have been adopted independently of such section,
sections, or part of a section so held to be invalid.
Section 10. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a general
and permanent nature pertaining to the subjects therein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances, parts of ordinances and sections of the prior
Code of Ordinances in force on the date of passage of this Ordinance, which are
incorporated in or pertain to the subjects enumerated and embraced in this Code
of Ordinances are hereby repealed as of 12:01 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on
October 4, 1989.
Section 11. The repeal of ordinances and Code of Ordinances sections as
provided in Section 10 hereof shall not affect:
   (1)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Code of
Ordinances;
   (2)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the 4th day
of October, 1989;
   (3)   Any ordinance or resolution, promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money to or by the City authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes of the
City or any other evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the City;
   (4)   Any right or franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution of
this Council to any person or corporation;
   (5)   Any ordinance naming, relocating or vacating any street or public way,
or any ordinance identifying stop streets at intersections, one-way streets or
any other traffic regulations;
   (6)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes, assessments or charges;
   (7)   Any prosecuting, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to the 4th day of October, 1989;
   (8)   Any ordinance which may be adopted by this Council after the 4th day
of October, 1989.
   Section 12. That this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after October 4, 1989.
Passed: October 3, 1989         Steven O. Neal /s/
                  PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL
Approved: October 3, 1989         J. Michael Laumann /s/
                  MAYOR
ATTEST:
Michael Mastruserio /s/
CLERK OF COUNCIL
   Certificate
   I, Michael Mastruserio, Clerk of Council of the City of Cheviot, do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance was published in the Western Hills Press,
a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Cheviot, Ohio, on December 13
and December 20, 1989.
                  M. Masturserio /s/
                  Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 1490, 1990
   ORDINANCE APPROVING THE CURRENT REVISION TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF
CHEVIOT, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, certain provisions within the Codified Ordinances of Cheviot, Ohio
should be amended to conform with current State law;
   WHEREAS, Council has heretofore entered into a contract with American Legal
Publishing Corporation to prepare and publish such revisions which are
presently before Council;
   NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO:
Section 1. That the following sections are hereby added, amended or repealed as
respectively indicated in order to comply with current State law:
   Section 70.99      Traffic Penalty (Amended)
   Section 71.02      License Required as Chauffeur
            or Operator (Amended)
   Section 71.06      Employment of Unlicensed
            Chauffeur (Amended)
   Section 71.11      Operation of Motor vehicle
            Prohibited When License is
            suspended or Revoked (Amended)
   Section 72.742      Ignition Interlock Devices
            (Amended)
   Section 73.01      Driving While Intoxicated or
            Drugged (Amended)
   Section 73.011      Implied Consent (Amended)
   Section 73.012      Person Under Arrest to be
            Advised of Consequences of
            Certain Actions; Seizure of
            Driver's License; Suspension
            Report (New Section Which Needs
            to be Added)
   Section 75.02      Operation of Motorized vehicle
            (Amended)
   Section 132.17      Open Containers Prohibited
            (Amended)
   Section 135.02      Vehicular Homicide (Amended)
Section 2. That this Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, welfare and safety
for the reason that there exists an imperative necessity for the earliest
publication and distribution of the current revision to the Codified Ordinances
to the officials and residents of the City, so as to facilitate administration,
daily operation and avoid practical and legal entanglements.
Passed: August 21, 1990         William J. Dagenbach /s/
                  PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL
Approved: August 21, 1990         J. Michael Laumann /s/
                  MAYOR
ATTEST:
Darryl R. Ambede /s/
CLERK OF COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 94-30
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, OHIO.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1994 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Cheviot,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE
OF OHIO:
   SECTION 1.   That the 1994 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Cheviot, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed 9-6-94
                              Samuel D. Keller /s/
                              President of Council
Approved 9-20-94                        J. Michael Laumann /s/
                              Mayor
ATTEST: Michael J. Murray /s/
ORDINANCE NO. 98-33
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Codified
Ordinances of Cheviot which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
   WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments
to the code which have been previously adopted by this Council, and amendments
which are now being approved by this Council; and
   WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the code, this Council finds
the amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, THREE-FOURTHS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
   Section 1. The amendments to the Codified Ordinances of Cheviot as published
by the American Legal Publishing Corporation which amendments are current
through Ordinance 97-30, passed on November 18, 1997, are hereby incorporated
as if fully set out herein, and are hereby adopted in their entirety.
   Section 2. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency for the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot. The reason for the emergency is
to allow the amendments to become an official part of the Codified Ordinances
of Cheviot at the earliest possible time.
Samuel D. Keller /s/                August 4, 1998
Samuel D. Keller                  Date passed
President of Council
J. Michael Laumann /s/                August 4, 1998
J. Michael Laumann                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Matthew E. Meyer /s/                Mark G. Waters /s/
Matthew E. Meyer                  Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
   CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Matthew E. Meyer, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, hereby
certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was published in
the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised Code on
the following dates:
   1) August 12, 1998, and
   2) August 19, 1998.
   Matthew E. Meyer /s/
   Matthew E. Meyer
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 99-15
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Codified
Ordinances of Cheviot which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
   WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments
to the code which have been previously adopted by this Council, and amendments
which are now being approved by this Council; and
   WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the code, this Council finds
the amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, THREE-FOURTHS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
   Section 1. The amendments to the Codified Ordinances of Cheviot as published
by the American Legal Publishing Corporation which amendments are current
through Ordinance 99-02, passed on March 2, 1999, are hereby incorporated as if
fully set out herein, and are hereby adopted in their entirety.
   Section 2. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency for the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot. It shall take effect on the
eleventh day after first publication by the Clerk of Council. The emergency is
necessary in order to allow the amendments to become an official part of the
Codified Ordinances of Cheviot at the earliest possible time.
Samuel D. Keller /s/                June 15, 1999
Samuel D. Keller                  Date passed
President of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 00-34
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments to
the code which have been previously adopted by Council, and amendments which
are now being approved by this Council; and
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Ordinance 00-22, passed on May 2,
2000, are hereby incorporated as if fully set out herein, and are hereby
adopted in their entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency for the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall be effective
immediately. The reason for the emergency is to allow the amendments to become
an official part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest possible
time.
Samuel D. Keller /s/                August 15, 2000
Samuel D. Keller                  Date passed
President of Council
J. Michael Laumann /s/                September 6, 2000
J. Michael Laumann                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Michael J. Murray /s/                Mark G. Waters /s/
Michael J. Murray                  Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
   CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Michael J. Murray, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, hereby
certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was published in
the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised Code, on
the following dates:
   1)   September 13, 2000, and
   2)   September 20, 2000.
   Michael J. Murray /s/
   Michael J. Murray
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 02-07
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS PUBLISHED BY
THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments to
the code which have been previously adopted by this Council, and new amendments
which are now being approved and adopted by this Council; and
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Cheviot Ordinance 01-39, passed on
November 20, 2001, are hereby incorporated as if fully set out herein, and are
hereby adopted in their entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance shall be an emergency measure for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect immediately. The
emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to become an official
part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest possible time.
Samuel D. Keller /s/                March 5, 2002
Samuel D. Keller                  Date passed
President of Council
J. Michael Laumann /s/                March 19, 2002
J. Michael Laumann                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Ryan T. Zech /s/                   Mark G. Waters /s/
Ryan T. Zech                     Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
ORDINANCE NO. 04-06
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS PUBLISHED BY
THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation;
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect:
   1)   changes in state criminal law which are being similarly enacted in the
City of Cheviot;
   2)   amendments to the code which have been previously adopted by this
Council; and
   3)   new amendments which are now being approved and adopted by this
Council;
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Cheviot Ordinance 03-26, passed on
October 7, 2003, are hereby adopted in their entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect
immediately. The emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to
become an official part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest
possible time.
James E. Morganroth /s/                January 20, 2004
James E. Morganroth                  Date passed
President of Council
Samuel D. Keller /s/                January 20, 2003
Samuel D. Keller                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Ryan T. Zech /s/                   Mark G. Waters /s/
Ryan T. Zech                     Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Ryan T. Zech, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, hereby
certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was published in
the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised Code, on
the following dates:
   1)   February 11, 2004, and
   2)   February 18, 2004.
   Ryan T. Zech /s/
   Ryan T. Zech
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 04-08
TO ADOPT THE SECOND SET OF AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS
PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, on January 20, 2004, by Ordinance No. 04-06, this Council adopted a
set of amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, it has now come to the attention of Council that there are additional
sections of the code which must be amended; and
WHEREAS, those additions have been provided to the city by American Legal
Publishing Corporation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The second set of amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances as
published by the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments,
attached hereto and made a part hereof, modify Chapter 71 of the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances, are hereby adopted in their entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance shall be an emergency measure for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect immediately. The
emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to become an official
part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest possible time.
James E. Morganroth /s/                February 3, 2004
James E. Morganroth                  Date passed
President of Council
Samuel D. Keller /s/                February 17, 2004
Samuel D. Keller                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Ryan T. Zech /s/                   Mark G. Waters /s/
Ryan T. Zech                     Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Ryan T. Zech, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio, hereby
certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was published in
the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised Code, on
the following dates:
   1)   March 31, 2004, and
   2)   April 7, 2004.
   Ryan T. Zech /s/
   Ryan T. Zech
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 07-24
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS PUBLISHED BY
THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation;
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect:
   1)   changes in state criminal law which are being similarly enacted in the
City of Cheviot;
   2)   amendments to the Code which have been previously adopted by this
Council; and
   3)   new amendments which are now being approved and adopted by this
Council;
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Cheviot Ordinance No. 07-13, passed
on April 17, 2007, are hereby adopted in their entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect
immediately. The emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to
become an official part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest
possible time.
Deborah M. McKinney /s/                September 4, 2007
Deborah M. McKinney               Date passed
President of Council
Samuel D. Keller /s/                September 4, 2007
Samuel D. Keller                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Matthew D. McGowan /s/                Mark G. Waters /s/
Matthew D. McGowan               Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
   CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Matthew D. McGowan, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio,
hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was
published in the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the
City of Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised
Code, on the following dates :
   1)   January 16, 2008, and
   2)   January 23, 2008.
   Matthew D. McGowan /s/
   Matthew D. McGowan
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 10-24
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS PUBLISHED BY
THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments to
the code which have been previously adopted by this council, and new amendments
which are now being approved and adopted by this Council; and
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Cheviot Ordinance 10-06, passed on
March 16, 2010, and through state legislation passed on December 31, 2009, are
hereby incorporated as if fully set out herein, and are hereby adopted in their
entirety.
Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect
immediately. The emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to
become an official part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest
possible time.
Deborah M. McKinney /s/                June 15, 2010
Deborah M. McKinney               Date passed
President of Council
Samuel D. Keller /s/                June 15, 2010
Samuel D. Keller                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Rachel A. McKinney /s/                Mark G. Waters /s/
Rachel A. McKinney                  Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Rachel A. McKinney, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio,
hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was
published in the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the
City of Cheviot, once per week for two consecutive weeks, in accordance with
Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised Code, on the following dates :
   1) _________________________, 2010, and
   2) _________________________, 2010.
   _________________________________
   Rachel A. McKinney
   Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 14-22
TO ADOPT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF CHEVIOT AS PUBLISHED BY
THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION; AND TO DECLARE AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to adopt the amendments to the Cheviot Code
of Ordinances which have been printed by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation; and
WHEREAS, those amendments reflect changes in state criminal law, amendments
which have been previously adopted by this council, and new amendments which
are now being approved and adopted by this Council; and
WHEREAS, after having reviewed the update to the Code, this Council finds the
amendments to be proper;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHEVIOT, STATE OF
OHIO, TWO-THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS THEREOF CONCURRING, THAT:
Section 1. The amendments to the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, as published by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation, which amendments, attached hereto
and made a part hereof, are current through Ordinance No. 14-8, passed on
February 18, 2014, and through state legislation passed on May 15, 2014, are
hereby incorporated as if fully set out herein, are hereby adopted in their
entirety, and are made a part of the official Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. This ordinance shall be an emergency measure for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Cheviot and shall take effect immediately. The
emergency is necessary in order to allow the amendments to become an official
part of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances at the earliest possible time.
Deborah M. Slaughter /s/                September 2, 2014
Deborah M. Slaughter               Date passed
President of Council
Samuel D. Keller /s/                September 2, 2014
Samuel D. Keller                  Date approved
Mayor
Attest:                        Approved as to form:
Jenny M. Eilermann /s/                Mark G. Waters /s/
Jenny M. Eilerman                  Mark G. Waters
Clerk of Council                  Law Director
   CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, Jenny M. Eilermann, Clerk of the Council of the City of Cheviot, Ohio,
hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance, or a succinct summary, was
published in the Western Hills Press, a newspaper of general circulation in the
City of Cheviot, Ohio, in accordance with Section 731.21 of the Ohio Revised
Code, on the following dates :
   1) _________9/10___________, 2014, and
   2) _________9/17___________, 2014.
   Jenny M. Eilermann______/s/___
   Jenny M. Eilermann
   Clerk of Council
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   WARD BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"municipal code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified
ordinances" or "code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B) All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR , and OR may be read AND , if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY.  The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of a fire department if such fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY . Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas day;
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of
such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Legislative
Authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of legislation covered in
Chapter 11, this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of
the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated
and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this
code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect, and are saved.
§ 10.13 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until the legislative body of the municipality shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   Section amended:
         "Section            of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances is amended to
read as follows:"
      (2)   Section added:
         "Section           , which reads as follows, is added to and amends
the Cheviot Code of Ordinances: ..."
      (3)   Section repealed:
         "Section            of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, which reads as
follows, is repealed: ..."
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense or violation.
CHAPTER 11: WARD BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Wards established
§ 11.01 WARDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   First Ward. Beginning at the junction of the east corporation line
with the center line of Harrison Avenue; then westwardly along the center line
of Harrison Avenue to the center line of Glenmore Avenue; then northwardly
along the center line of Glenmore Avenue to the center line of Woodbine Avenue;
then eastwardly along the center line of Woodbine Avenue to the center line of
Delmar Avenue; then northwardly along the center line of Delmar Avenue to the
center line of Homelawn Avenue; then westwardly along the center line of
Homelawn Avenue to the center line of Trevor Avenue; then northwardly along the
center line of Trevor to the center line of Smith Road; then westwardly along
the center line of Smith Road to the center line of Washington Avenue; then
northwardly along the center line of Washington Avenue to the north corporation
line; then eastwardly along the north corporation line to the east corporation
line; then southwardly along the east corporation line to the center line of
Harrison Avenue and the place of beginning.
   (B)   Second Ward. Beginning at the junction of the center line of Glenmore
Avenue with the center line of Harrison Avenue; then westwardly along the
center line of Harrison Avenue to the west corporation line; then northwardly
along the west corporation line to the north corporation line; then eastwardly
along the north corporation line to the west corporation line; then northwardly
along the west corporation line to the north corporation line; then eastwardly
along the north corporation line to the center line of Washington Avenue; then
southwardly along the center line of Washington Avenue to the center line of
Smith Road; then eastwardly along the center line of Smith Road to the center
line of Trevor Avenue; then southwardly along the center line of Trevor Avenue
to the center line of Homelawn Avenue; then eastwardly along the center line of
Homelawn Avenue to the center line of Delmar Avenue; then southwardly along the
center line of Delmar Avenue to the center line of Woodbine Avenue; then
westwardly along the center line of Woodbine Avenue to the center line of
Glenmore Avenue; then southwardly along the center line of Glenmore Avenue to
the center line of Harrison Avenue and the place of beginning.
   (C)   Third Ward. Beginning at the junction of the center line of Harrison
Avenue with the center line of Higbee Avenue; then westwardly along the center
line of Harrison Avenue to the center line of Carson Avenue; then southwardly
along the center line of Carson Avenue to the center line of St. Martin's
Place; then westwardly along the center line of St. Martin's Place to the
center line of Mayfair Avenue; then southwardly along the center line of
Mayfair Avenue to the south corporation line; then eastwardly along the south
corporation line to the east corporation line; then northwardly along the east
corporation line to the north corporation line; then eastwardly along the south
corporation line to the center line of Cheviot Avenue; then northwardly along
the center line of Cheviot Avenue to the center line of Gamble Avenue; then
eastwardly along the center line of Gamble Avenue to the center line of Higbee
Street; then northwardly along the center line of Higbee Street to the center
line of Harrison Avenue and the place of beginning.
   (D) Fourth Ward. Beginning at the junction of the center line of Harrison
Avenue with the center line of Carson Avenue; then westwardly along the center
line of Harrison Avenue to the west corporation line; then southwardly along
the west corporation line to the south corporation line; then westwardly along
the north corporation line to the west corporation line; then southwardly along
the west corporation line to the south corporation line; then eastwardly along
the south corporation line to the center line of Mayfair Avenue; then
northwardly along the center line of Mayfair Avenue to the center line of St.
Martin's Place; then eastwardly along the center line of St. Martin's Place to
the center line of Carson Avenue; then northwardly along the center line of
Carson Avenue to the center line of Harrison Avenue and the place of beginning.
(Ord. 894, passed 10-24-72; Am. Ord. 00-26, passed 6-6-00)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   LEGISLATIVE; COUNCIL
         
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
         
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
         
35.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
36.   TAX POLICY
         
36A.   MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Qualifications; oaths
   
30.02   Approval of bonds
   
30.03   Bonds; building inspector and plumbing inspector
   
30.04   Salaries
   
30.05   Authorizing the investment of surplus money
   
30.06   Reimbursement to city for personal calls from city telephone lines
   
30.07   Payment of telephone bills
   
30.08   Selection process for design and management services contracts
   
30.09   Public depositories
   
30.10   Residency requirements prohibited; exceptions
   
30.11   Credit/purchasing card policy
Funds
   
30.15   Waste Removal Fund
   
30.16   Swimming Pool Fund
   
30.17   Mayor's Court Computer Fund
   
30.18   OBBS Assessment Fund
   
30.19   EMS Fund
   
30.20   Community Oriented Police Expenditures Fund
   
30.21   Automotive Equipment Bonds Fund
   
30.22   D.U.I. Sustenance of Prisoners Fund
   
30.23   Field House Shelter Fund
   
30.24   Capital Investment Fund
   
30.25   Covid Relief Fund
   
30.26   Covid Relief Fund - Hamilton County
   
30.27   ARPA - American Rescue Plan Act Fund
§ 30.01 QUALIFICATIONS; OATHS.
   Each officer of the corporation, or any department or board thereof, whether
elected or appointed as a substitute for a regular officer, shall be an elector
within the corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided, and before
entering upon his official duties shall take an oath to support the
constitutions of the United States and of Ohio, and an oath that he will
faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his office.
Provisions concerning official oaths shall apply to deputies, but they need not
be electors.
(R.C. § 733.68)
§ 30.02 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   The official bonds of all municipal officers shall be prepared by the law
director. Except as otherwise provided in this title, they shall be in such sum
as the council prescribes by general or special ordinance and be subject to the
approval of the mayor, except that the mayor's bond shall be approved by the
council, or, if it is not legally organized, by the clerk of the court of
common pleas of the county in which the corporation or the larger part thereof
is situated.
(R.C. § 733.70)
§ 30.03 BONDS; BUILDING INSPECTOR AND PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The building inspector and the plumbing inspector shall be required to
furnish bond according to law to the city in the amount specified by council,
the bond being conditioned and that the principal thereof will well and truly
perform all of the duties of his office and faithfully account to the city for
all moneys collected.
('73 Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 SALARIES.
   The salaries of municipal employees shall be that as set from time to time
by the legislative authority.
('73 Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 AUTHORIZING THE INVESTMENT OF SURPLUS MONEY.
   (A)   Whenever there are moneys in the treasury of the city which will not
be required to be used by Cheviot for a period of 6 months or more, such moneys
may be invested in obligations of Cheviot, obligations made eligible for the
deposit or investment of interim moneys of subdivisions of the state under R.C.
§ 135.14, or in such other investments as may be provided by the Revised Code
of the State of Ohio.
   (B)   When it is determined that there are surplus moneys in the city
treasury available for investment, and such investment is recommended, the
mayor, the auditor, and the city solicitor may order the investments of moneys
in the treasury in such obligations, at not more than the current market value,
as they may deem advisable for the city, all in accordance with the Revised
Code of the State of Ohio.
(R.C. § 731.56) ('73 Code, § 30.05)
§ 30.06 REIMBURSEMENT TO CITY FOR PERSONAL CALLS FROM CITY TELEPHONE LINES.
   The caretakers of Harvest Home Park and any city employee, and any elected
or appointed city official shall reimburse the city for any personal long
distance telephone call or any personal directory assistance call from any city
phone line.
(Ord. 95-50, passed 12-5-95)
§ 30.07 PAYMENT OF TELEPHONE BILLS.
   (A)   The City Auditor is hereby directed and shall reimburse the Mayor, the
Safety Service Director, the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, and the Law
Director, and the Maintenance Department Foreman their respective telephone
bills for the prior month.
   (B)   Such reimbursement shall cover the costs of the general telephone
services, maintenance fee, and touch tone service. All other elected services
or long distance bills shall continue to be the sole responsibility of that
individual. With the exception that long distance calls made from residences
concerning city business shall be reimbursed by the city to those named in this
section.
   (C)   This practice has been historically documented in the city. However,
under the latest state audit, it was indicated that this practice should be
placed in ordinance in order to comply with state law.
(Ord. 95-42, passed 12-5-95; Am. Ord. 99-20, passed 7-13-99)
§ 30.08 SELECTION PROCESS FOR DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The clerk is hereby instructed to advertise for the solicitation of
professional design firm statements of qualifications to be submitted by
architectural and engineering firms with expertise in municipal design projects
to submit a statement of qualifications and to update the statement on at least
an annual basis. Such advertisement shall be made in conformity with Ohio law.
   (B)   The solicited information shall identify the firm; shall identify its
prior municipal engineering and architectural experience; shall confirm that
such firm has adequate errors and omissions liability insurance; and shall
identify the capability of the firm in terms of personnel, equipment, and
facilities to perform various professional design services of a municipal
nature; and shall identify the educational qualifications of the members of the
firm with special attention drawn to prior municipal work. Such statements
shall be submitted to the safety-service director of the city, who shall accept
all such statements and maintain them in an appropriate filing system.
Statements of professional design firm qualifications shall also be accepted by
the safety-service director at any time for filing.
   (C)   For any municipal work for the city requiring professional design
expertise, the safety-service director, or his designee, shall verbally report
to council on the selection which has been made of the professional design firm
for all design contracts which exceed $25,000 in amount. In addition, the
verbal report shall identify the basis for the selection of the professional
design firm.
   (D)   The clerk shall advertise in order to solicit the qualification
statements identified in this section on a bi-annual basis.
(Ord. 99-08, passed 6-1-99)
§ 30.09 PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES.
   PNC Bank, Fifth Third Bank, US Bank, First Financial Bank, and Cheviot
Savings Bank are recognized and designated as public depositories to receive
public monies of the City of Cheviot, Ohio.
(Ord. 02-22, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 3-2-10; Am. Ord. 12-29,
passed 12-23-12)
§ 30.10 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.01.
      VOLUNTEER. A person who is not paid for service or who is employed on
less than a permanent full-time basis.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, no
political subdivision shall require any of its employees, as a condition of
employment, to reside in any specific area of the state.
   (C)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to a volunteer.
      (2)   To ensure adequate response times by certain employees of political
subdivisions to emergencies or disasters while ensuring that those employees
generally are free to reside throughout the state, the electors of any
political subdivision may file an initiative petition to submit a local law to
the electorate, or the Legislative Authority may adopt an ordinance or
resolution, that requires any individual employed by that political
subdivision, as a condition of employment, to reside either in the county where
the political subdivision is located or in any adjacent county in this state.
For purposes of this section, an initiative petition shall be filed and
considered as provided in R.C. §§ 731.28 and 731.31, except that the Fiscal
Officer of the political subdivision shall take the actions prescribed for the
Auditor or Clerk if the political subdivision has no Auditor or Clerk, and
except that references to a municipal corporation shall be considered to be
references to the applicable political subdivision.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C), employees of political
subdivisions of this state have the right to reside any place they desire.
(R.C. § 9.481)
§ 30.11 CREDIT/PURCHASING CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to ensure that city-issued
credit cards and purchasing cards (i.e., Home Depot, Mastercard, Visa, etc.)
are closely monitored to provide for maximum security and to guard against
misuse and/or losses of public funds for which the city may be held liable.
This policy is meant to comply with the mandates of 2018 H.B. 312, Section 1,
enacted by the 132nd General Assembly and made applicable to the city as
codified by R.C. § 717.31. All city-issued credit cards are to be used solely
for the purpose of conducting city business and are not to be used in any event
for personal expenses.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Officers or positions authorized to use credit card accounts.
         (a)   The Auditor's office shall maintain control of city credit card
account, purchasing card accounts, and presentation instruments related to the
cards and checks.
         (b)   City credit cards may be issued to the Safety-Service Director,
the Public Works Superintendent, the Fire Chief, and the Police Chief. Other
employees may be issued cards upon the request of the employee's respective
department director and with the approval of the Safety-Service Director and
the Auditor.
         (c)   The cardholders authorized pursuant to this paragraph are liable
in-person and upon an official bond the employee has given for misuse of city
credit or purchasing cards, including employee's failure to provide an itemized
receipt in accordance with this policy.
      (2)   Types of expenses for which city cards may be used. City credit
cards are to be used for legitimate city purposes. Examples of purchases that
constitute legitimate city purposes are as follows:
         (a)   Travel. Credit cards may be used by the above-assigned
individuals for official business-related expenditures for hotel, parking, gas,
meals, and other travel-related expenses, as authorized and pre-approved by the
Safety-Service Director.
         (b)   Purchases. Credit cards may be used for ordering supplies,
including online purchases, when pre-approved by the Safety-Service Director.
         (c)   Personal use of credit cards is strictly prohibited. Credit
cards shall not be used for cash advances, personal purposes or expenses, or
any non-city purpose.
         (d)   City's purchasing procedures apply to all purchases. City credit
cards shall not be used to circumvent the general purchasing procedures
required by Ohio law and the policies of the city. Therefore, with the
exception of gasoline credit cards, and unless otherwise approved by Council,
all purchases made with a city credit card shall be preceded by an approved
purchase order.
      (3)   Acquisition, use, and management of cards. The Safety-Service
Director shall be responsible for the acquisition, use, and management of all
new and existing city credit card accounts and associated presentation
instruments, including cards and checks. The city's name shall appear on each
presentation instrument related to the account cards and checks. No debit cards
shall be issued to the city.
      (4)   Procedure for submitting receipts for credit card purchases.
         (a)   Itemized receipts. Employees must always obtain an itemized
receipt for each transaction. If a cash register tape does not have
descriptions, the employee should write the description on the tape. Any
transaction without a properly substantiated receipt is subject to
reimbursement of the city by the employee.
         (b)   Review of receipts. The employee must first submit the receipts
to the Safety-Service Director for review before submission to the Auditor's
office for payment.
      (5)   Procedure for card issuance or re-issuance, card cancellation, and
lost or stolen cards.
         (a)   Issuance of card. Upon being issued a credit card or purchasing
card, the employee shall sign an acknowledgment of this policy. See Attachment
"A" to Res. 19-01.
         (b)   Re-issuance of card. When replacement cards are issued, the
employee shall return the old card to the Safety-Service Director for
destruction.
         (c)   Cancellation of card. When a credit card is cancelled, the
employee shall return the old card to the Auditor's office for destruction.
         (d)   Lost or stolen card. The employee shall immediately notify the
Safety-Service Director and Auditor's office upon discovery of a lost or stolen
credit card.
      (6)   Credit card or purchasing card limits. The city has several credit
cards issued to city officials, employees, and departments. Individual limits
for each credit card are set based upon the nature and frequency of use.
Maximum credit limit amounts shall not exceed $20,000. As of the date of this
policy, the city has the following cards:
 
Card                  Current Credit Limit
Sam's Club Mastercard $17,500
Lowe's Store Card     $5,000
Home Depot Store Card $5,000
 
      (7)   Misuse of credit card. Any use of city credit cards for personal
purchases is strictly prohibited and unauthorized. Such use may result in the
employee losing all privileges to use city credit cards, cancellation of the
credit card, reimbursement paid to the city, disciplinary action, and/or
criminal prosecution. All actions or omissions by an employee resulting in a
failure to comply with any provision of this policy, including failing to
immediately report a lost or stolen card, shall qualify as misuse of a city
credit card account and will be subject to appropriate action.
      (8)   Appointment of Compliance Officer and Compliance Officer's duties.
The Mayor is authorized and directed to appoint a Compliance Officer to comply
with the statutory requirements for the quarterly review of the city's credit
cards pursuant to R.C. § 717.31(C)(1). The employee serving as the Compliance
Officer may not be the Auditor, may not use a city credit card account, and may
not authorize any other city employee to use a city credit card account.
         (a)   Compliance Officer appointment. The Mayor selects and appoints
the City Treasurer as the Compliance Officer.
         (b)   Compliance Officer's reports. The Compliance Officer shall
conduct a quarterly review of the city's credit cards and purchasing cards. The
Compliance Officer shall file with City Council quarterly reports at City
Council's first meetings in January, April, July, and October. Said reports
shall include the number of active cards issued, the cards' and accounts'
expiration dates, and the cards' and accounts' credit limits.
      (9)   Auditor's report of rewards. The Auditor shall file an annual
report with City Council which details all rewards received based on the city's
use of any city credit card or purchasing card accounts. The Auditor shall file
said report at the first City Council meeting in January each year.
(Res. 19-01, passed 1-15-19)
FUNDS
§ 30.15 WASTE REMOVAL FUND.
   The City Auditor, under the laws of this state and the city, is hereby
directed to establish a separate fund for revenue generated by the municipal
refuse fee under
Chapter 50.
(Ord. 1559, passed 11-3-92)
§ 30.16 SWIMMING POOL FUND.
   The City Auditor, under the laws of this state and the city, is hereby
directed to establish a separate fund for the revenue generated by the
operation of the municipal swimming pool.
(Ord. 1559, passed 11-3-92)
§ 30.17 MAYOR'S COURT COMPUTER FUND.
   (A)   Three dollars from pay out citations and court costs from the city's
Mayor's Court shall be allocated to a special fund titled the Municipal Mayor's
Court Computer Fund.
   (B)   The City Auditor shall take all necessary measures to secure
authorization from the State Auditor to establish the Municipal Mayor's Court
Computer Fund.
   (C)   Establishment of the fund shall be effective from the date
authorization from the State Auditor's office is received by the city.
(Ord. 1593, passed 7-6-93)
§ 30.18 OBBS ASSESSMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the OBBS Assessment Fund
under the provisions of R.C. § 3781.102(E). The necessity for establishing the
OBBS Assessment Fund is to provide for separate accounting records for the
three percent building inspection fee collected for remittance to the state
Board of Building Standards, as authorized for collection through the Cheviot
Building Division.
(Ord. 1600, passed 9-21-93)
§ 30.19 EMS FUND.
   The City Auditor is hereby authorized to establish an emergency-medical
service fund called the EMS Fund.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 1-3-95)
§ 30.20 COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICE EXPENDITURES FUND.
   A fund for community oriented police expenditures is hereby established. The
account number for said fund shall be 213.
(Ord. 97-9, passed 3-18-97)
§ 30.21 AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT BONDS FUND.
   A fund for Automotive Equipment Bonds is hereby established. The fund shall
be known as account no 305.101.252.1 and its purpose shall be to pay for the
new garbage truck and fire pumper.
(Ord. 97-13, passed 5-6-97)
§ 30.22 D.U.I. SUSTENANCE OF PRISONERS FUND.
   There is hereby established within the city an account known as the "D.U.I.
Sustenance of Prisoners Fund." The Auditor shall assign an appropriate account
number to the fund.
(Ord. 00-37, passed 10-3-00)
§ 30.23 FIELD HOUSE SHELTER FUND.
   There is hereby established a new budgetary fund entitled “Field House
Shelter Fund.” This fund shall be given the identification number of 715.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 3-21-05)
§ 30.24 CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a new fund entitled “Capital Investment Fund.”
This fund shall account for receipt of funds and expenditures related to
improving certain city properties, such as gateways, streetscapes, park and
other project-based city property improvements. Grants and donations received
for the purposes described herein shall be paid directly into the Capital
Investment Fund.
(Res. 19-23, passed 9-3-19)
§ 30.25 COVID RELIEF FUND.
   A new fund is hereby established for the revenues and expenditures
associated with the Federal CARES Act, and said fund shall be identified as
“Covid Relief Fund (Fund No. 412).” The fund shall be funded by money received
pursuant to the Federal CARES Act and Ohio H.B. 481.
(Ord. 20-19, passed 7-21-20)
§ 30.26 COVID RELIEF FUND - HAMILTON COUNTY.
   A new fund is hereby established for the revenues and expenditures
associated with the Federal CARES Act funds from Hamilton County, and said fund
shall be identified as “Covid Relief Fund - Hamilton County (Fund No. 413).”
The fund shall be funded by money received pursuant to the Federal CARES Act
from Hamilton County.
(Ord. 20-24, passed 10-6-20)
§ 30.27 ARPA - AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT FUND.
   A new fund is hereby established for the revenues and expenditures
associated with the American Rescue Plan Act, and said fund shall be identified
as “ARPA - American Rescue Plan Act Fund (Fund No. 414).” The fund shall be
funded by money received pursuant to the American Rescue Plan Act.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 7-20-21)
CHAPTER 31: LEGISLATIVE; COUNCIL
Section
Organization
   
31.01   Meetings
   
31.02   Members
   
31.03   Qualifications
   
31.04   Election and term
   
31.05   Officers
   
31.06   Vacancy
   
31.07   Judge of election and qualification of members; quorum and special
meetings
   
31.08   Rules; journal; expulsion of members
Legislative Powers
   
31.15   Legislative powers of council
   
31.16   Division of city into wards
   
31.17   Salaries to be changed during term
   
31.18   Power over salaries and bonds
   
31.19   Hearing of charges against officers; action of council
   
31.20   Suspension of accused pending hearing
   
31.21   Power as to process
   
31.22   Compelling testimony; costs
Adoption of Ordinances
   
31.25   Adoption of ordinances
   
31.26   Numbering sections
   
31.27   Correction of ordinance form
   
31.28   Publication
ORGANIZATION
§ 31.01 MEETINGS.
   The council shall meet in regular session at the council chambers at 8:00
p.m. on the first and third Tuesday of each month. Should any holiday fall upon
the date for a regular meeting, the council shall appoint another date within
the same month in lieu thereof. The mayor or any 3 members may call special
meetings upon at least 12 hours' notice to each member, served personally or
left at his usual place of residence.
(R.C. § 731.46)
Cross-reference:
   Quorum and special meetings, see §
31.07
   Rules; journal; expulsion of members, see §
31.08
Statutory reference:
   All meetings of governmental bodies to be public, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 31.02 MEMBERS.
   The legislative power of each city shall be vested in, and exercised by the
city council, composed of not fewer than 7 members, 4 of whom shall be elected
by wards and 3 of whom shall be elected by electors of the city at large. For
the first 20,000 inhabitants in the city, in addition to the original 5,000,
there shall be 2 additional members of such legislative authority, elected by
wards, and for every 15,000 inhabitants thereafter there shall be one
additional member similarly elected. The total number of members of the council
shall not exceed 17.
(R.C. § 731.01)
§ 31.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Councilmen-at-large shall have resided in the city, and councilmen
from wards shall have resided in their respective wards, for at least one year
immediately preceding their election. Each member of the legislative authority
shall be a city elector, shall not hold any other public office, except that of
notary public or member of the state militia, and shall not be interested in
any contract with the city. No such member may hold employment with the city.
   (B)   A member who ceases to possess any of these qualifications, or removes
from the member's ward, if elected from a ward, or from the city, if elected
from the city at large, shall forthwith forfeit the member's office.
(R.C. § 731.02; amend. Ord. 1066-1977, passed 6-14-77)
Cross-reference:
   Judge of election and qualification of members, see §
31.07
§ 31.04 ELECTION AND TERM.
   (A)   Beginning at the general election in November, 2001, and every four
years thereafter, one member of council from each ward shall be chosen, which
members shall serve for a term of four years commencing on the first day of
January next after their election.
   (B)   Beginning at the general election in November, 2001, members of
council at large shall be chosen who shall serve for a term of two years
commencing on the first day of January next after their election. Beginning at
the general election in November, 2003, and every four years thereafter,
members of council at large shall be chosen who shall serve for a term of four
years commencing on the first day of January next after their election.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-6-01)
§ 31.05 OFFICERS.
   Within ten days from the commencement of their term, the members of council
shall elect a president pro tempore, a clerk, and any other employees that are
necessary, and fix their duties, bonds, and compensation. These officers and
employees shall serve for 2 years, but may be removed at any time for cause, at
a regular meeting of the council, by a two-thirds vote of the members elected.
(R.C. § 731.04)
§ 31.06 VACANCY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, when the office of a
member of the council becomes vacant, either because a member ceases to hold
the office before the end of his term or because a member-elect fails to take
office, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by
a person chosen by the residents of the city who are members of the county
central committee of the political party by which the last occupant of that
office or the member-elect was nominated. If the vacancy occurs in the office
of a ward representative in a city where the political party which nominated
the last occupant of that office is organized into a city controlling committee
with more than one member from the ward where the vacancy exists, the members
of the city controlling committee representing that ward shall choose the
person to fill the vacancy. Not less than 5 nor more than 45 days after a
vacancy occurs, the specified members of the city or county committee shall
meet to make an appointment to fill the vacancy. At least 4 days before the
date of this meeting, the chairman or secretary of the city or county committee
shall notify each committee member eligible to vote on filling the vacancy by
first class mail of the date, time, and place of the meeting and its purpose. A
majority of all eligible committee members constitutes a quorum, and a majority
of the quorum is required to make the appointment.
   (B)   If election to the office so vacated took place at a nonpartisan
election, or if the office was occupied by, or was to be occupied by a person
not nominated at a primary election, or if the appointment was not made by the
committee members in accordance with this section, the vacancy shall be filled
in the same manner as a vacancy in the legislative authority of a village, as
provided in R.C. § 731.43.
(R.C. § 731.43)
§ 31.07 JUDGE OF ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS; QUORUM AND SPECIAL
MEETINGS.
   The council shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its
members. A majority of all the members elected shall be a quorum, but a less
number may adjourn from day to day and compel attendance of absent members in
such a manner and under such penalties as are prescribed by ordinance. The
council shall provide rules for the manner of calling special meetings.
(R.C. § 731.44)
§ 31.08 RULES; JOURNAL; EXPULSION OF MEMBERS.
   The council shall determine its own rules and keep a journal of its
proceedings. It may punish or expel any member for disorderly conduct or
violation of its rules, and declare his seat vacant for absence without valid
excuse, where the absence has continued for 2 months. No expulsion shall take
place without the concurrence of two-thirds of all the members elected, and
until the delinquent member has been notified of the charge against him and has
had an opportunity to be heard.
(R.C. § 731.45)
LEGISLATIVE POWERS
§ 31.15 LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   The powers of council shall be legislative only. It shall perform no
administrative duties nor appoint nor confirm any officer or employee in the
city government except those of its own body, except as otherwise provided by
law. All contracts requiring the authority of council for their execution shall
be entered into and conducted to performance by the board or officers having
charge of the matters to which they relate, and after authority to make the
contracts has been given, and the necessary appropriation made, council shall
take no further action thereon.
(R.C. § 731.05)
§ 31.16 DIVISION OF CITY INTO WARDS.
   After each recurring federal census; and within 3 months after the issuance
of the proclamation of the city's population by the secretary of state; and
when there is annexed thereto any territory containing, by the last federal
census, such number of inhabitants as will entitle the city to an additional
member of the council, council shall subdivide the city into wards, equal in
number to the members of the council therein to be elected from wards. If
council fails to make the subdivision into wards within the time herein
required, on the application of the president of the council, it shall be made
by the safety-service director. All wards shall be bounded, as far as
practicable, by county lines, streets, alleys, avenues, public grounds, canals,
watercourses, corporation lines, or center lines of platted streets or
railroads, and shall be composed of adjacent and compact territory, and as
nearly equal in population as practicable.
(R.C. § 731.06)
§ 31.17 SALARIES TO BE CHANGED DURING TERM.
   The salary of any officer shall not be increased or diminished during the
term for which he was elected or appointed, and, except as otherwise provided
in this title, all fees pertaining to any office shall be paid into the city
treasury. This section does not prohibit the payment of any increased costs of
continuing to provide the identical benefits provided to an officer at the
commencement of his term of office.
(R.C. § 731.07)
§ 31.18 POWER OVER SALARIES AND BONDS.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, council, by ordinance or resolution,
shall determine the number of officers, clerks, and employees in each
department of the city government, and shall fix, by ordinance or resolution,
their respective salaries and compensation, and the amount of bond to be given
for each officer, clerk, or employee in each department of the government, if
any is required. Bond shall be made by such officer, clerk, or employee, with
surety subject to the approval of the mayor.
(R.C. § 731.08)
§ 31.19 HEARING OF CHARGES AGAINST OFFICERS; ACTION OF COUNCIL.
   When charges are filed with council by the mayor pursuant to §
35.11, such charges shall be heard at the next regular meeting thereof, unless
council extends the time for such hearing, which shall be done only on the
application of the accused. The accused may appear in person and by counsel,
examine all witnesses, and answer all charges against him. The judgment or
action of the council shall be final, but to remove such officer the votes of
two-thirds of all members elected to the council shall be required.
(R.C. § 733.36)
§ 31.20 SUSPENSION OF ACCUSED PENDING HEARING.
   Pending any such proceedings, an accused person may be suspended by a
majority vote of all members elected to council, but such suspension shall not
be for a longer period than 15 days, unless the hearing of such charges is
extended upon the application of the accused, and in such event the suspension
shall not exceed a period of 30 days.
(R.C. § 733.37)
§ 31.21 POWER AS TO PROCESS.
   For the purpose of so investigating charges against the head of any
department or officer the council may issue subpoenas or compulsory process to
compel the attendance of persons and the production of books and papers before
the council, and may provide, by ordinance, for exercising and enforcing this
provision.
(R.C. § 733.38)
§ 31.22 COMPELLING TESTIMONY; COSTS.
   In all cases in which the attendance of witnesses may be compelled for such
investigation, any member of the council may administer the requisite oaths,
and the council shall have the same power to compel the giving of testimony by
the attending witnesses as is conferred upon courts of justice. In all such
cases, witnesses shall be entitled to the same privileges and immunities as are
allowed witnesses in civil cases. Witnesses shall be paid the same fees and
mileage provided for under R.C. § 1901.26, and the costs of all such
proceedings shall be payable from the general fund of the municipal
corporation.
(R.C. § 733.39)
ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES
§ 31.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Each measure of a general nature hereafter adopted, other than an ordinance
of general application limited to a single occasion, wherever practicable,
shall be of a form reenacting, revising, supplementing, or amending an
appropriate title, chapter, or section of this code. An ordinance when so
adopted shall become part of this code as though included in its original
enactment, and shall repeal any previous section or sections intended to be
repealed thereby.
('73 Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.26 NUMBERING SECTIONS.
   Each measure enacted shall be assigned an appropriate caption and section
number.
('73 Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.27 CORRECTION OF ORDINANCE FORM.
   Whenever the form of a proposed measure does not comply with the provisions
of §§
31.25 and
31.26, the clerk or solicitor shall call this to the attention of council and
the solicitor shall submit a draft of the measure which, if adopted, will
correct the omission.
('73 Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.28 PUBLICATION.
   Each ordinance of a general nature hereafter adopted shall be published in
the manner provided by law.
('73 Code, § 31.07)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Listing of boards and commissions
§ 32.01 LISTING OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The following are the boards and commissions of the city:
   (A)   City planning commission. The council has established a city planning
commission consisting of 5 members: The mayor, safety-service director, and 3
citizens, residents of Cheviot, who shall serve without compensation and who
shall be appointed by the mayor for a term of 6 years. The term of one of the
members of the first commission shall be for 4 years and one for 2 years.
   (B)   Civil service commission. The commission shall consist of 3 members
appointed by the mayor. The commission is empowered to adopt and enforce rules
consistent with the civil service law.
(R.C. Chapter 124)
   (C)   Recreation board. The recreation board shall have the authority to
supervise, equip, operate and maintain playgrounds, playfields, gymnasiums,
public baths, swimming pools, and all indoor recreation centers. For duties,
the board may employ play leaders, recreation directors, supervisors,
superintendents, or any other employees.
      (1)   The board shall consist of 5 persons, 2 of whom shall be members of
the school board of the city.
      (2)   The board shall be appointed by the mayor of the city and shall
serve for a term of 5 years or until their successors are appointed and
qualified, except that the members of the board first appointed shall be
appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually
thereafter.
      (3)   The members of the board shall serve without compensation.
      (4)   Vacancies on the board occurring other than by expiration of term
shall be for the unexpired term and shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment.
   (D)   Zoning board of appeals, see §
150.14 zoning board of appeals.
   (E)   Urban business improvement board.
   (F)   Board of health.
      (1)   The administration of all health matters in the municipality is
vested in the Board of Health of the General Health District of Hamilton
County. The public health services are those as required by the Ohio Revised
Code and the Ohio Sanitary Code, except; the issuing of all plumbing permits,
the inspections of all plumbing works, and the charges of fees thereof in the
municipality.
      (2)   The services are provided for by written contract, entered into
annually, between the municipality and the District Advisory Council of
Hamilton County General Health District. The cost of the services are as
determined by the district advisory council.
   (G)   Municipal parking authority.
   (H)   Board of review for tax appeals.
('73 Code, § 32.01)
   (I)   Tax Department.
      (1)   The salary of the Tax Commissioner shall be as set forth from time
to time by City Council.
      (2)   The salary of the Deputy Tax Commissioner shall be as set forth
from time to time by City Council.
      (3)   The salary of the part-time Clerk shall be as set forth from time
to time by City Council.
      (4)   The Tax Department is hereby authorized to employ two part-time
employees as clerks at the hourly wage as set forth from time to time by City
Council.
      (5)   The full-time members of the Tax Department shall be granted the
following holidays each year: New Year's Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, November Election Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas
Day, employee's birthday, and Martin Luther King Day.
      (6)   The full-time members of the Tax Department shall be entitled to
the following vacation with pay: five weeks after 20 years of service; four
weeks after 15 years of service; three weeks after eight years of service; two
weeks after one year of service.
      (7)   The city shall provide a full and comprehensive health insurance
and major medical plan with a minimum of $250,000 Major Medical limit for all
full-time employees of the Earnings Tax Department.
(Ord. 94-32, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-35, passed - - )
   (J)   Committee to authorize the purchase and sale of real property.
      (1)   There is created a three person committee, consisting of the Mayor,
the Safety-Service Director, and the Law Director. The committee's purpose
shall be to authorize the purchase and sale of real estate under the
Neighborhood Stabilization Program administered by the Hamilton County
Department of Community Development.
      (2)   With only the unanimous consent of all three committee members, the
committee may authorize the purchase and sale of real property under the
program. Any such purchases shall be subject to available funding and
appropriations.
      (3)   Upon the purchase or sale of any property under the program, the
committee shall promptly report the activity to this Council at its next
regular meeting.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 7-21-09)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   General duties of police and fire departments
   
33.02   Clothing allowance
   
33.03   Dissemination of Meagan's Law notices
   
33.04   Rate charged for life squad runs
   
33.05   Part-time police officers
Auxiliary Police Unit
   
33.10   Establishment
   
33.11   Executive head of unit
   
33.12   Duties of auxiliary police unit
   
33.13   Compensation
   
33.14   Benefits
   
33.15   Police relief and pension fund eligibility
   
33.16   Ages for original appointments
   
33.17   Community service officer
Fire Department
   
33.25   Fire department personnel
   
33.26   Part-time firemen
   
33.27   Mutual fire assistance; services provided to other Ohio entities
   
33.28   Ages for original appointments
   
33.29   Deductions for credit union
   
33.30   Background investigations of applicants for the municipal fire
department
Employment Policies
   
33.35   Salary for members of police and fire departments, and department
chiefs
   
33.36   Holidays
   
33.37   Vacations
   
33.38   Insurance benefits
   
33.39   Longevity pay
   
33.40   Overtime
   
33.41   Residency requirements
   
33.42   Compensatory and sick time for fire chief and police chief
   
33.43   Life insurance for chiefs of departments
Parking Enforcement Unit
   
33.50   Establishment
   
33.51   Executive head of unit
   
33.52   Authority of parking enforcement officers
   
33.53   Training of parking enforcement officers
   
33.54   Compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 GENERAL DUTIES OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Police force. The police force shall preserve the peace, protect
persons and property, and obey and enforce all ordinances of council and all
criminal laws of the state and the United States.
   (B)   Fire department. The fire department shall protect the lives and
property of the people in case of fire, and both the police and fire
departments shall perform such other duties, not inconsistent herewith, as
council by ordinance prescribes.
('73 Code, § 33.01)
Cross-reference:
   Issuance of occupancy permits by fire department, see §
151.05
§ 33.02 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Full-time firemen and police officers shall be paid directly an annual
amount designated by council for a clothing allowance.
   (B)   Safety equipment limited to body armor and protective helmets will be
provided for part-time police officers by the city as follows:
      (1)   Body armor will be provided by the city for all part-time officers.
If the officer leaves the employment of the City of Cheviot prior to the
completion of two years of service, the city shall be reimbursed by the officer
for the full cost of the body armor. After two years of service, no
reimbursement is due to the city.
      (2)   Protective helmets will be purchased by the police department and
shall remain city property.
      (3)   All clothing and required equipment will be supplied by the city.
If employment is terminated before the completion of two years of service, the
city shall be reimbursed by the officer at 100% of the clothing cost. All
required equipment shall remain the property of the city.
      (4)   Any reimbursement due the City of Cheviot may be recouped through
payroll deduction.
   (C)   Replacement of damaged personal clothing may be made with the approval
of both the Fire Chief and Safety-Service Director if such clothing was damaged
in the course of the employee’s official duties.
(Am. Ord. 05-20, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 10-33,
passed 10-5-10)
§ 33.03 DISSEMINATION OF MEAGAN'S LAW NOTICES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours of receiving a R.C. § 2950.11 notice, the Cheviot
Police Department shall deliver a copy of the notice to the occupant of each
residential dwelling unit, commercial or other unit on both sides of the street
for three blocks in both directions of the address of the residence of the
sexual predator or habitual sex offender as the said address is set forth in
the notice. The notice shall also be delivered within any additional
geographical area or areas adopted by the Ohio Attorney General. Such delivery
may be accomplished by hand carrying and/or by mailing a copy to, or
conspicuously posting a copy at each such dwelling, commercial or other unit.
   (B)   A copy of any such notice shall be incorporated into the city's Weekly
Crime Report and forwarded to the newspaper which normally publishes the said
Report with a written request that the said notice be published in its entirety
with the said Report.
(Ord. 97-30, passed 11-18-97)
§ 33.04 RATE CHARGED FOR LIFE SQUAD RUNS.
   (A)   There is hereby established, for all persons, residents and non-
residents alike, a rate of $650 for a basic life squad run made by the Cheviot
Fire Department within the city limits of Cheviot which run requires medical
service transportation. There shall be a charge of $750 if the run requires
paramedic monitoring or an intravenous line. There shall be a charge of $850
for advanced life support services, which include drug therapy, intubation, or
cardiac resuscitation. In addition to the above charges, there shall be charged
$14 for each mile traveled by the life squad in making the emergency run. The
charge for residents and non-residents who are receiving Medicare benefits
shall be the amount equal to the authorized Medicare reimbursement rate for
basic and advanced life support services, as such rate has been established for
the City of Cheviot under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 32 U.S.C.A.,
as amended.
   (B)   The rate established in division (A) above shall also apply to mutual
aid runs made by the Cheviot Fire Department outside of the Cheviot city
limits.
   (C)   The billing rate established in division (A) above shall be submitted
to the insurance provider of the person transported. If that person is a
resident of the City of Cheviot and has no applicable insurance coverage, or if
the person’s insurance carrier cannot be required to provide payment for the
services, no bill is to be sent to that person. Billing is to be made only to
the extent of a resident’s insurance coverage. If the person transported is not
a resident of the City of Cheviot, direct billing to that person is authorized,
if the costs are not covered by insurance.
   (D)   The City of Cheviot shall also charge user fees for the delivery of
emergency fire department services. The rate of the user fees shall be that
which is the usual, customary, and reasonable cost for the services, and may
fluctuate accordingly. The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle
insurance representing the cost of the claim for damages of the vehicles,
property, or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance company
of the owner of a vehicle, owner of property, or responsible parties. The
Cheviot Fire Department and City Administration shall execute any documents
necessary to effectuate the collection of fees.
(Ord. 02-18, passed 6-18-02; Am. Ord. 04-26, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 07-26,
passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 4-19-11; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7-17-18)
§ 33.05 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   A part-time officer shall provide the scheduling officer with his primary
work schedule prior to the fifteenth day of each month for the following month.
A part-time officer shall be available to work for the department a minimum of
16 hours per week. A part-time officer shall work the shifts which have been
scheduled for him or her by the scheduling officer.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 9-6-05)
AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT
§ 33.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An auxiliary police unit is established in the city within the police
department. Members of the unit shall be known and referred to as auxiliary
police.
('73 Code, § 33.02) (Am. Ord. 95-49, passed 12-5-95)
§ 33.11 EXECUTIVE HEAD OF UNIT.
   The safety-service director shall be the executive head of the unit, under
the direction of the mayor, and shall make appointments thereto and removals
therefrom, with the approval of the mayor. He shall prescribe rules and
regulations for organization, training, administration, control, and conduct of
the auxiliary police unit.
('73 Code, § 33.03) (Am. Ord. 95-49, passed 12-5-95)
§ 33.12 DUTIES OF AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT.
   The duties of the auxiliary police unit shall be to preserve the peace;
protect persons and property in the city; enforce all ordinances of the city,
applicable traffic laws of the state, criminal laws of the State of Ohio and
the United States; and such other duties as may be prescribed by the safety-
service director.
('73 Code, § 33.04) (Am. Ord. 95-49, passed 12-5-95)
§ 33.13 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation shall be paid directly to members of the unit for services,
but payment for services shall be paid into a fund to be used for purchase of
uniforms or supplies for the unit or other necessary and proper expenses of the
unit. However, the safety-service director, with the approval of the mayor,
shall be authorized to pay such compensation as he may deem reasonable and
proper, for services of members of the unit, whether to the fund or directly to
members of the unit.
('73 Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.14 BENEFITS.
   The safety-service director, with the approval of the mayor, shall be
authorized to pay such other expenses for the operation of the special police
unit, as he may deem necessary, reasonable and proper, including such expenses
as may have been incurred prior to the passage of this chapter. This shall
include workmen's compensation and other insurance as may be approved by
council.
('73 Code, § 33.06)
§ 33.15 POLICE RELIEF AND PENSION FUND ELIGIBILITY.
   Members of the special police unit are not eligible for membership in the
police relief and pension fund. Members will not be classified in the
classified service of the city.
('73 Code, § 33.07)
§ 33.16 AGES FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   Ages for original appointments to the police department of the city shall be
between the ages of 18 and 36 years of age, inclusive.
(R.C. § 124.41) (Ord. 928, passed 12-4-73)
§ 33.17 COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The new position of community service officer in the police department
of the city shall be created effective immediately. The compensation for the
office shall be on a part-time basis.
   (B)   The hours and duties shall be determined by the safety-service
director and the chief of police of the city.
(Ord. 1001, passed 7-8-75)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.25 FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   The fire department shall consist of the regular firemen and not less than
15 nor more than 35 part-time firemen. As used in this section and in §
33.26, the terms "fireman" and "firemen" include both male and female
firefighters.
('73 Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 1599, passed 9-21-93; Am. Ord. 01-30, passed 10-3-01)
§ 33.26 PART-TIME FIREMEN.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   Any part-time fireman who is 65 years of age or older must furnish
to the safety-service director annually a doctor’s certificate stating that he
is fully capable of performing any task connected with the job of fire
fighting.
      (2)   Any part-time fireman not reporting for his assigned duty for at
least 50% of the alarms in a year’s time shall be dismissed unless he is on
leave of absence. The leave shall be granted by the safety-service director for
sickness or temporary disability. This leave of absence shall not extend over a
period of more than one year.
   (B)   Supervision. Part-time firemen will at all times be under the
supervision of the ranking regular fireman.
   (C)   Reporting for duty. All part-time firemen shall be required to work
according to the work schedule put forth by the fire chief, or in the absence
of the fire chief, by the next in command. Absent an emergency, part-time
firemen shall not be scheduled to work more than 212 hours in a 28-day period,
nor more than 1,500 hours in one calendar year.
   (D)   Medical protection. Part-time fire personnel shall be provided certain
medical protection, which is also provided to the full-time personnel, which
includes vaccinations, flu shots, hepatitis shots, booster shots, and Titer
shots. Successful applicants for positions as part-time fire personnel shall
receive a baseline physical examination at the discretion of the fire chief.
('73 Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 98-03, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 98-35, passed 8-18-
98; Am. Ord. 01-30, passed 10-3-01; Am. Ord. 05-01, passed 1-4-05; Am. Ord. 06-
16, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 10-33, passed 10-5-10)
§ 33.27 MUTUAL FIRE ASSISTANCE; SERVICES PROVIDED TO OTHER OHIO ENTITIES.
   (A)   The city by and through the mayor shall execute an agreement which has
been, or is to be, signed by other communities in Hamilton County providing for
mutual fire assistance in event of emergency.
(Ord. 711, passed 9-19-66)
   (B)   With the approval of the Cheviot Fire Chief or the officer having
charge of the Department, the Cheviot Fire Department may provide fire
protection or emergency medical services, as appropriate, upon request or when
dispatched, to any governmental entity in Ohio, or in another jurisdiction, all
in accordance with R.C. § 9.60.
(Ord. 02-39, passed 12-17-02)
§ 33.28 AGES FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   Ages for original appointments to the fire department of the city shall be
between the ages of 18 and 36 years of age, inclusive. (Ord. 926, passed 11-27-
73)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighter qualifications, see R.C. § 124.42
§ 33.29 DEDUCTIONS FOR CREDIT UNION.
   The city through the auditor may make payroll deductions for full-time
members of the fire department, to be made to the Cincinnati Firefighters
Federal Credit Union. The amount of payroll deductions and subsequent changes
shall conform to the Cincinnati Firefighters Federal Credit Union Rules and
Regulations.
(Ord. 1034, passed 5-18-76)
§ 33.30 BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS OF APPLICANTS FOR THE MUNICIPAL FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Each applicant to the municipal fire department shall furnish a
classifiable set of fingerprints to the municipal police department.
   (B)   The chief of police, and members of the municipal police department
acting in his name, are authorized to conduct a field investigation and
directed to conduct criminal records checks on each applicant for employment by
the municipal fire department.
   (C)   The chief of police or a member of the police department acting in his
behalf shall prepare a factual summary of the background investigation and
criminal records check of each fire fighter applicant, and transmit such
summary to the civil service commission for the purpose of determining the
fitness of an applicant. The summary may contain recommendations to the civil
service commission concerning the suitability for employment of a fire fighter
applicant.
   (D)   Background investigations and records checks include records of all
arrests and dispositions as an adult. Records of arrests and dispositions,
while an applicant was considered a juvenile, shall be transmitted only when
authorized by court order, court rule, court decision, federal regulation or
state statute, authorizing such dissemination.
   (E)   Criminal history records and information shall include arrest and
disposition data on file in the National Crime Information Center, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Defense, and all other federal,
state and local law enforcement agencies.
   (F)   Any applicant to the municipal fire department who is denied
employment on the basis of the investigation summary referred to in this
section, may inspect that summary for the purpose of clarifying, explaining or
denying the accuracy of its contents.
   (G)   The chief of police and members of the police department shall make no
other dissemination to the fire chief regarding the fitness of fire fighter
applicants, except in the official summary report referred to in this section.
(Ord. 1073-1977, passed 10-25-77)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 33.35 SALARY FOR MEMBERS OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS, AND DEPARTMENT
CHIEFS.
   (A)   All full time members of the police department shall be paid a salary
in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in effect at that time.
   (B)   All full time members of the fire department shall be paid a salary in
accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in effect at that time.
   (C)   The police chief and fire chief shall be paid a starting salary as set
by council from time to time.
   (D)   (1)   All part-time members of the police department shall be paid a
salary in accordance with Ordinance 10-29, passed July 20, 2010, as amended
from time to time.
      (2)   (a)   A part-time officer who is required to appear on off-duty
time before an official court or before the prosecutor for a pretrial
conference on matters pertaining to the officer’s official duties, and any
officer called in to work at a time outside of his or her scheduled shift,
which does not abut either end of a scheduled shift, shall be paid for four
hours at the officer’s regular rate of pay.
         (b)   Officers shall attend any training listed as mandatory and will
be paid for four hours for the training session unless it is scheduled during
the officer’s work shift and unless the session exceeds four hours, in which
cases the officer will be paid for the actual number of hours present at the
training session.
      (3)   Part-time officers assigned to events at Harvest Home Park shall be
paid at the current off-duty police rate of pay and charged to the sponsoring
group.
   (E)   Part-time fire department personnel shall be compensated in accordance
with Ordinance 10-33, passed October 5, 2010, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 05-20,
passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 10-29, passed 7-20-10;
Am. Ord. 10-33, passed 10-5-10)
§ 33.36 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full time members of the police department shall be granted
holidays each year in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in
effect at that time.
   (B)   All full time members of the fire department shall be granted holidays
each year in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in effect at
that time.
   (C)   The police chief and fire chief shall be granted the following
holidays each year: New Year's Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Employee's
Birthday, and Martin Luther King Day. In addition, each shall be granted a half
day holiday on Good Friday and Christmas Eve.
   (D)   Part-time police officers shall be compensated at one and one-half
times their normal rate of pay when working on the following holidays: New
Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve Day, and
Christmas Day.
   (E)   Part-time fire personnel who work on New Year’s Day, Martin Luther
King Day, Presidents Day, Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day shall be compensated at one and one-
half times the regular rate of pay.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 94-35, passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 94-36,
passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 95-33, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95;
Am. Ord. 02-36, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 05-20, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 06-16,
passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 10-29, passed 7-20-10; Am. Ord. 10-33, passed 10-5-10)
§ 33.37 VACATIONS.
   (A)   All full time members of the police department shall be entitled to
vacation with pay in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in
effect at that time.
   (B)   All full time members of the fire department shall be entitled to
vacation with pay in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in
effect at that time.
   (C)   The police chief and fire chief shall be entitled to vacation with pay
in accordance with the labor contract between the city and the bargaining unit
of the respective department.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 94-35, passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 94-36,
passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 95-33, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95;
Am. Ord. 02-36, passed 11-19-02)
§ 33.38 INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Health insurance benefits shall be in accordance with the collective
bargaining agreement in effect at that time for all full time members of the
police department.
   (B)   Health insurance benefits shall be in accordance with the collective
bargaining agreement in effect at that time for all full time members of the
fire department.
   (C)   The city shall provide a full and comprehensive health insurance and
major medical plan with a minimum of $250,000 Major Medical limit for the
police chief and fire chief.
   (D)   The City of Cheviot shall provide all part-time fire personnel with
liability insurance through Volunteer Fireman’s Insurance Services, Inc., or
its equivalent.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 94-35, passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 94-36,
passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 95-33, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95;
Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 10-33, passed 10-5-10)
§ 33.39 LONGEVITY PAY.
   (A)   Longevity pay shall be paid to all full time members of the police
department in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in effect at
that time.
   (B)   Longevity pay shall be paid to all full time members of the fire
department in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in effect at
that time.
   (C)   Longevity pay for the police chief and the fire chief shall be
computed and paid in accordance with the labor contract between the city and
the respective bargaining units of the departments.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 94-35, passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 94-36,
passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 95-33, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95)
§ 33.40 OVERTIME.
   (A)   All overtime for full time members of the police department shall be
carried on the books in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in
effect at that time.
   (B)   All overtime for full time members of the fire department shall be
carried on the books in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement in
effect at that time.
§ 33.41 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There is no residency requirement with respect to full-time police
officers.
   (B)    RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, as used in the remainder of this section, shall
be defined as Sections 1 through 30, Fractional Range 2, Town 2, Green
Township, Hamilton County, Ohio, and Sections 31 through 36, Fractional Range
2, Town 3, Millcreek Township, Hamilton County, Ohio.
   (C)   All persons hereafter appointed to the position of full-time fire
person shall become residents of the residential district within 12 months of
the effective date of appointment and shall continue to maintain their primary
place of residence within the residential district at all times during their
continued service with the city.
   (D)   All full-time fire persons now holding positions in the city service
and residing within the city, as reflected on the personnel records of the city
as of the date of passage of this section, shall maintain their primary place
of residence within the residential district at all times during their
continued service with the city.
   (E)   All full-time fire persons now holding positions in the city service
not residing within the city shall, if they change their primary place of
residence, as reflected on the personnel records of the city as of the date of
passage of this section, establish and maintain their primary place of
residence within the residential district at all times thereafter during their
continued service with the city.
   (F)   All persons hereafter appointed to the position of either police chief
or fire chief, who reside outside the city at the time of appointment, shall
become residents of the city within 12 months of the effective date of
appointment and shall continue to maintain their primary place of residence
within the city at all times during their continued service with the city. All
persons hereafter appointed to the position of either police chief or fire
chief who, at the time of appointment, hold a full-time position in either the
city police or fire department and have their primary place of residence within
the residential district may continue to maintain such residence as their
primary place of residence; provided, however, that if they change their
primary place of residence, then they shall establish and maintain their
primary place of residence within the city at all times thereafter during their
continued service with the city.
   (G)   A map setting forth the boundaries of the residential district as
defined herein shall be kept on record in the office of the city safety service
director.
(Ord. 1493, passed 11-20-90)
§ 33.42 COMPENSATORY AND SICK TIME FOR FIRE CHIEF AND POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   All compensatory and sick time up to a maximum of 120 days shall be
retained and protected on the books with respect to such sick time and
compensatory time accumulated by the city’s fire chief and police chief.
   (B)   Upon retirement, the police chief and fire chief shall be eligible for
payment of all accumulated sick time, not to exceed 1,020 hours.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 95-3, passed 1-17-95; Am. Ord. 06-28,
passed 9-5-06)
§ 33.43 LIFE INSURANCE FOR CHIEFS OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The city shall provide to the police chief and the fire chief a term life
insurance coverage on the life of the chief with a death benefit equal to the
annual salary payable to the designated beneficiary in the event of death.
(Ord. 1430, passed 10-4-88; Am. Ord. 94-35, passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 94-36,
passed 9-20-94; Am. Ord. 95-33, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 95-34, passed 9-5-95)
PARKING ENFORCEMENT UNIT
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established within the Police Department of the city a
parking enforcement unit.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 2-6-96)
§ 33.51 EXECUTIVE HEAD OF UNIT.
   The executive head of the parking enforcement unit shall be the city Safety
Service Director, who shall make all appointments and removals of parking
enforcement officers, subject to any general rules prescribed by the City
Council by ordinance. The Safety Service Director shall prescribe rules for the
organization, training, administration, control, and conduct of the parking
enforcement unit. The Safety Service Director is authorized to appoint parking
enforcement officers who agree to serve on a voluntary basis or for nominal
compensation, and persons with physical disabilities may receive appointments
as parking enforcement officers.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 2-6-96)
§ 33.52 AUTHORITY OF PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   The authority of the parking enforcement officers shall be limited to
the enforcement of:
      (1)   Ordinances governing parking in handicapped parking locations;
      (2)   Ordinances governing parking in fire lanes;
      (3)   Ordinances governing parking in zones which prohibit parking at all
times;
      (4)   Ordinances governing parking in zones which prohibit parking during
certain days or hours;
      (5)   Ordinances governing parking in metered spaces; and
      (6)   Ordinances governing the proper spacing and direction of parking.
   (B)   Parking enforcement officers shall have no other powers. Parking
enforcement officers are specifically prohibited from issuing a citation for a
moving violation of any kind.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 2-6-96)
§ 33.53 TRAINING OF PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The Safety Service Director, or his designee, shall provide training to the
parking enforcement officers which shall include instruction in:
   (A)   General administrative rules and procedures governing the parking
enforcement unit;
   (B)   The role of the judicial system as it relates to parking regulation
and enforcement;
   (C)   Proper techniques relating to enforcement of parking ordinances;
   (D)   Human interaction skills; and
   (E)   First aid.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 2-6-96)
§ 33.54 COMPENSATION.
   Effective February 6, 1996, compensation for a parking enforcement officer
shall be at the rate as set forth by City Council from time to time. This
compensation rate shall be subject to future wage adjustments approved by the
City Council. This section does not prohibit the Safety Service Director from
appointing persons described in § 33.51, who are volunteers or persons with
physical disabilities, who may be compensated at less than the ordained rate,
provided that the City Council approves the funding for such appointments.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 2-6-96)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Holidays
   
34.02   Vacations
   
34.03   Insurance benefits
   
34.04   Starting employees
   
34.05   Payments to AFSCME health and welfare fund
   
34.06   Sick leave
   
34.07   Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation Program Plan
   
34.08   Longevity pay
Cross-reference:
   Employment policies for members of police and fire departments, see §§
33.35 through
33.43
§ 34.01 HOLIDAYS.
   City employees shall be granted holidays in accordance with the appropriate
collective bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
§ 34.02 VACATIONS.
   City employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the
appropriate collective bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
§ 34.03 INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   Insurance benefits for city employees shall be provided in accordance with
the appropriate collective bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
§ 34.04 STARTING EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Insurance benefits for city employees shall be provided in accordance
with the appropriate collective bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
   (B)   The Safety-Service Director is authorized and directed to make
available to the employees covered by collective bargaining agreements a "dual
option" health care plan which allows an individual employee, at his or her
option, to select a less expensive plan.
(Ord. 03-16, passed 6-3-03)
§ 34.05 PAYMENTS TO AFSCME HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND.
   Payments to AFSCME Health and Welfare Fund shall be made for employees in
accordance with the appropriate collective bargaining provisions in effect at
that time.
§ 34.06 SICK LEAVE.
   City employees shall be granted sick leave in accordance with the
appropriate collective bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
§ 34.07 OHIO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM PLAN.
   The Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation Program may be adopted for
city employees as may be provided by the appropriate collective bargaining
provisions in effect at that time.
§ 34.08 LONGEVITY PAY.
   Longevity pay shall be granted in accordance with the appropriate collective
bargaining provisions in effect at that time.
CHAPTER 35: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Mayor
   
35.01   Election and term
   
35.02   Powers
   
35.03   Directors of departments to meet with mayor
   
35.04   Mayor and officers to attend council
   
35.05   Acting mayor
   
35.06   Vacancy
   
35.07   Duties
   
35.08   Filling vacancies for unexpired term
   
35.09   Mayor's reports to council
   
35.10   Protest against excessive expenditures
   
35.11   Supervision of conduct of officers
   
35.12   Preferring charges against officers
President of Council
   
35.20   President of council
Auditor
   
35.25   Term; qualifications
   
35.26   Books and accounts
   
35.27   Auditing accounts
   
35.28   Overdrawing appropriation; proof of claims
   
35.29   Detailed statements; receipts
   
35.30   Certificate as to election of certain officers
   
35.31   Recording of certificates by clerk
   
35.32   Forfeiture for neglect to make report
   
35.33   Duty of auditor when receiving bids
   
35.34   Deputy auditor
   
35.35   Auditor's seal
   
35.36   Complying with ordinances; attendance at council meetings
Treasurer
   
35.40   Election and term
   
35.41   Accounts
   
35.42   Powers and duties
   
35.43   Quarterly account; annual report
   
35.44   City funds
   
35.45   Duty of delivering money and property
Law Director
   
35.50   Election and term
   
35.51   Requirements for office
   
35.52   Powers and duties
   
35.53   Duties concerning suits
Safety-Service Director
   
35.60   Establishment
   
35.61   Qualifications
   
35.62   Duties
   
35.63   Expenditures
MAYOR
§ 35.01 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The mayor shall be elected for a term of 4 years, commencing on the first
day of January next after his election. He shall be an elector of the
corporation.
(R.C. § 733.02)
§ 35.02 POWERS.
   The mayor shall be the chief conservator of peace within the city. He may
appoint and remove the safety-service director and the heads of the
subdepartments of public service and safety, and shall have other powers and
perform other duties as are conferred and required by law.
(R.C. § 733.03)
§ 35.03 DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS TO MEET WITH MAYOR.
   When the mayor deems necessary, the directors of the several departments of
the city shall meet with him at the time and place he designates, for
consultation and advice upon the affairs of the city.
(R.C. § 733.05)
§ 35.04 MAYOR AND OFFICERS TO ATTEND COUNCIL.
   The mayor, the directors, and the several officers of the city shall attend
the meetings of council when specifically requested to do so by council, and
answer at such time questions put to any of them by any member of the council,
relative to the affairs of the city under their respective management and
control. The mayor shall make such recommendations as he deems wise, in
writing, to the council for the welfare of the city.
(R.C. § 733.06)
§ 35.05 ACTING MAYOR.
   When the mayor is absent from the city, or is unable for any cause to
perform his duties, the president of council shall be acting mayor. While the
president of council is acting as mayor, he shall not serve as president of
council.
(R.C. § 733.07)
Cross-reference:
   President of council, see §
35.20
§ 35.06 VACANCY.
   (A)   In case of the death, resignation, or removal of the mayor, the
vacancy in the office of Mayor shall be filled, until a successor is elected
and qualified, by a person chosen by the residents of the city who are members
of the City Central Committee if there is one, or if not then of the County
Central Committee, of the political party with which the last occupant of the
office was affiliated. If the vacancy occurs because of the death, resignation
or inability to take office of a Mayor-elect, an appointment to take the office
at the beginning of the term shall be made by the members of the Central
Committee who reside in the city where the vacancy occurs.
   (B)   Not less than five nor more than 45 days after the vacancy occurs, the
specified members of the city or county committee shall meet to make an
appointment to fill the vacancy. Not less than four days before the date of the
meeting the Committee Chairperson or Secretary shall send, by mail to every
members eligible to vote on filling the vacancy, a written notice stating the
date, time, and place of the meeting and its purpose. A majority of the
eligible members present at the meeting may make the appointment.
   (C)   If the last occupants of the office of Mayor or the Mayor-elect was
elected as an independent candidate, the vacancy shall be filled, until a
successor is elected and qualified, by election by the legislative authority.
   (D)   If a vacancy in the office of Mayor occurs more than 40 days before
the next regular municipal election, a successor shall be elected at that
election for the unexpired term unless the unexpired term ends within one year
immediately following the date of that election, in which case an election to
fill the unexpired term shall not be held and the person appointed or elected
under division (A) of this section shall hold the office for the unexpired
term. If an election is held under this division, the person appointed or
elected by the legislative authority under division (A) of this section shall
hold the office until a successor is elected and qualified under this division.
(R.C. § 733.08)
§ 35.07 DUTIES.
   The mayor shall perform all the duties prescribed by the bylaws and
ordinances of the city. He shall see that all ordinances, bylaws and
resolutions of the council are faithfully obeyed and enforced. He shall sign
all commissions, licenses, and permits granted by authority of the council, as
authorized by law, and such other instruments as by law or ordinance may
require his certificate.
(R.C. § 733.30)
§ 35.08 FILLING VACANCIES FOR UNEXPIRED TERM.
   In case of death, resignation, removal, or disability of any officer or
director in any department, unless otherwise provided by law, the mayor shall
fill the vacancy by appointment, and such appointment shall continue for the
unexpired term and until a successor is duly appointed or elected and
qualified, or until the disability is removed.
(R.C. § 733.31)
§ 35.09 MAYOR REPORTS TO COUNCIL.
   The mayor shall communicate to council from time to time a statement of the
finances of the municipality, and such other information relating thereto and
to the general condition of the affairs of the municipality as he deems proper
or as may be required by council.
(R.C. § 733.32)
§ 35.10 PROTEST AGAINST EXCESSIVE EXPENDITURES.
   If, in the mayor's opinion, an expenditure is authorized by the council
exceeding the revenues of the corporation for the current year, it shall be his
duty to protest against such expenditure, and enter such protest, and the
reason therefor, on the journal of the council.
(R.C. § 733.33)
§ 35.11 SUPERVISION OF CONDUCT OF OFFICERS.
   The mayor shall supervise the conduct of all of the officers of the
corporation, inquire into and examine the grounds of all reasonable complaints
against any of them, and cause all their violations or neglect of duty to be
promptly punished or reported to the proper authority for correction.
(R.C. § 733.34)
§ 35.12 PREFERRING CHARGES AGAINST OFFICERS.
   The mayor shall have general supervision over each department and the
officers provided for by law. When the mayor has reason to believe that the
head of a department or such officer has been guilty, in the performance of his
official duty, of bribery, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, misconduct in
office, gross neglect of duty, gross immorality, or habitual drunkenness, he
shall immediately file with the council, except when the removal of such head
of department or officer is otherwise provided for, written charges against
such person, setting forth in detail a statement of such alleged guilt, and, at
the same time, or as soon thereafter as possible, serve, or cause to be served,
a true copy of the charges on the person against whom the charges are made. The
service may be in person or by leaving a copy of the charges at the office of
such person, and due return thereof being made to council, as is provided for
the return of the service of summons in a civil action.
(R.C. § 733.35)
PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL
§ 35.20 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   Beginning at the general election in November, 2001, the president of
council shall be elected for a term of four years, commencing on the first day
of January next after his election, and shall serve until his successor is
elected and qualified. He shall be an elector of the corporation, and shall
preside at all regular and special meetings of council, but shall have no vote
therein except in case of a tie.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-6-01)
AUDITOR
§ 35.25 TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The auditor shall be elected for a term of four years, commencing on the
first day on January next after his election, and shall serve until his
successor is elected and qualified. He shall be an elector of the city.
(R.C. § 733.10)
§ 35.26 BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The auditor shall keep the books of the city, exhibit accurate statements of
all moneys received and expended, and of all property owned by the city and the
income derived therefrom, and of all taxes and assessments.
(R.C. § 733.11)
§ 35.27 AUDITING ACCOUNTS.
   At the end of each fiscal year, or more often if required by council, the
auditor shall audit the accounts of all officers and departments. He shall
prescribe the form of accounts and reports to be rendered to his department and
the form and method of keeping accounts by all other departments, and, subject
to the powers and duties of the auditor of state, shall have the inspection and
revision thereof. Upon the death, resignation, removal, or expiration of the
term of any officer, the auditor shall audit the accounts of the officer and if
the officer is found indebted to the city, he shall immediately give notice
thereof to council and to the law director, and the latter shall proceed to
collect the indebtedness.
(R.C. § 733.12)
§ 35.28 OVERDRAWING APPROPRIATION; PROOF OF CLAIMS.
   The auditor shall not allow the amount set aside for any appropriation to be
overdrawn, or the amount appropriated for one item of expense to be drawn upon
for any other purpose, unless sufficient funds shall actually be in the
treasury to the credit of the fund upon which the voucher is drawn. When any
claim is presented to him, he may require evidence that such amount is due, and
for this purpose may summon any agent, clerk, or employee of the city, or any
other person, and examine him upon oath or affirmation concerning the voucher
or claim.
(R.C. § 733.13)
§ 35.29 DETAILED STATEMENTS; RECEIPTS.
   On the first Monday of each month, detailed statements of the receipts and
expenditures of the officers and departments for the preceding month shall be
made to the auditor by the departmental heads. The auditor shall countersign
each receipt given by the treasurer before it is delivered to the person
entitled to receive it, and shall charge the treasurer with the amount thereof.
If the auditor approves any vouchers contrary to the provisions of this title,
he and his sureties shall be individually liable for the amount thereof.
(R.C. § 733.14)
§ 35.30 CERTIFICATE AS TO ELECTION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   The city auditor shall certify to the court of common pleas, the election of
every officer of the city having power to discharge the duties of a judge of a
county court, to take the acknowledgment of deeds, or to certify depositions or
affidavits to be used within the city, with the date of such election, and the
time when such officer became legally qualified to discharge the duties of such
office. This certificate shall be made within 10 days after such qualification.
(R.C. § 733.15)
§ 35.31 RECORDING OF CERTIFICATES BY CLERK.
   The clerk of the court of common pleas shall record the certificates
provided for in §
35.30 in an appropriate record book. The same fees shall be allowed to the
officers certifying and recording them as are allowed under R.C. § 2303.20 (R).
(R.C. § 733.16)
§ 35.32 FORFEITURE FOR NEGLECT TO MAKE REPORT.
   Each city auditor who neglects or refuses to perform the duty required by §
35.31, shall pay $15 to the treasurer of the city for each such neglect or
refusal, to be recovered in a civil action, at the suit of the city, and shall
also be liable for all damages arising from such neglect or refusal.
(R.C. § 733.17)
§ 35.33 DUTY OF AUDITOR WHEN RECEIVING BIDS.
   When bids are required to be filed for the letting of contracts by the
safety-service director, it shall be the duty of the city auditor or his chief
deputy to attend and assist at the opening thereof and to inspect them.
(R.C. § 733.18)
§ 35.34 DEPUTY AUDITOR.
   The city auditor is authorized to appoint a deputy auditor of the city who
shall perform the duties of the city auditor during the disability of the
auditor and during his or her absence from the city.
§ 35.35 AUDITOR'S SEAL.
   Council shall provide a seal for the auditor, in the center of which shall
be the name of the city, and around the margin the words "city auditor," an
impression of which seal shall be affixed to all transcripts, orders,
certificates, or other papers requiring authentication.
(R.C. § 733.20)
§ 35.36 COMPLYING WITH ORDINANCES; ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The auditor shall comply with all ordinances of council not
conflicting with his duties as prescribed by statute.
   (B)   If the auditor determines it improper to comply with duties prescribed
by any city ordinance, he shall notify the president of council, in writing,
giving notice of his noncompliance and his reasons for same. Upon request by
the president of council, at least 3 days preceding a specified council
meeting, the auditor shall attend the meeting.
TREASURER
§ 35.40 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The treasurer shall be elected for a term of 4 years, commencing on the
first day of January next after his election. He shall be an elector of the
corporation.
(R.C. § 733.42)
§ 35.41 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The treasurer shall keep an accurate account of:
      (1)   All moneys received by him, showing the amount thereof, the time
when, from whom, and on what account received;
      (2)   All disbursements made by him, showing the amount thereof, the time
when, to whom, and on what account paid.
   (B)   He shall so arrange his books that the amount received and paid on
account of separate funds, or specific appropriations, shall be exhibited in
separate accounts. In addition to the ordinary duties of such officer, he shall
have such powers and perform such duties as may be required by ordinance, not
inconsistent with state law and not incompatible with the nature of his office.
(R.C. § 733.43)
§ 35.42 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The treasurer shall demand and receive from the county treasurer taxes
levied and assessments made and certified to the county auditor by authority of
the council, and placed by the auditor on the tax list for collection, and,
from persons authorized to collect or required to pay them, moneys accruing to
the corporation from judgments, fines, penalties, forfeitures, licenses and
costs taxed in the mayor's court, and debts due the corporation. He shall
disburse them on the order of any person authorized by law or ordinance to
issue orders therefor.
   (B)   The treasurer of a village that does not have a charter form of
government shall not disburse any funds except upon an order signed by at least
one member of the Legislative Authority or the Village Clerk and countersigned
by the treasurer. The clerk-treasurer or fiscal officer of a village that does
not have a charter form of government shall not disburse any funds except upon
an order signed by at least one member of the Legislative Authority and
countersigned by the clerk-treasurer or village fiscal officer.
(R.C. § 733.44)
§ 35.43 QUARTERLY ACCOUNT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The treasurer shall settle and account with the council, quarterly, and also
when council may require such by resolution or ordinance. Each year, at the
first regular council meeting in January, the treasurer shall report to council
the condition of finances of the city, the amount received by him, the sources
of such receipts, and the disbursements made by him and on what account, during
the preceding year. The treasurer's account shall exhibit the balance due on
each fund which may have come into his hands during the year.
(R.C. § 733.45)
§ 35.44 CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The treasurer shall receive and disburse all city funds and other
funds as arise in or belong to any department or part of the corporation
government, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The treasurer of a village that does not have a charter form of
government shall not disburse any funds except upon an order signed by at least
one member of the Legislative Authority or the Village Clerk and countersigned
by the treasurer. The clerk-treasurer or fiscal officer of a village that does
not have a charter form of government shall not disburse any funds except upon
an order signed by at least one member of the Legislative Authority and
countersigned by the clerk-treasurer or village fiscal officer.
(R.C. § 733.46)
§ 35.45 DUTY OF DELIVERING MONEY AND PROPERTY.
   At the expiration of his term of office, or on his resignation or removal,
the treasurer shall deliver to his successor all moneys, books, papers, and
other property in his possession as treasurer. In the case of the death or
incapacity of such treasurer, his legal representatives shall, in like manner,
pay over and deliver the money and property which were in the treasurer's hands
to the person entitled thereto.
(R.C. § 733.47)
LAW DIRECTOR
§ 35.50 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The law director shall be elected for a term of 4 years, commencing on the
first of January next after his election. He shall be an elector of the city.
(R.C. § 733.49)
§ 35.51 REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICE.
   No person shall be eligible to the office of law director who is not an
attorney at law, admitted to practice in Ohio.
(R.C. § 733.50)
§ 35.52 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The law director shall prepare all contracts, bonds, and other instruments
in writing in which the city is concerned, and shall serve the several
directors and officers mentioned in this title as legal counsel and attorney.
(R.C. § 733.51)
§ 35.53 DUTIES CONCERNING SUITS.
   When required so to do by resolution of the council, the law director shall
prosecute or defend, as the case may be, for and on behalf of the city, all
complaints, suits, and controversies in which the city is a party, and other
suits, matters, and controversies as he shall, by resolution or ordinance, be
directed to prosecute, but shall not be required to prosecute any action before
the mayor for the violation of an ordinance without first advising the action.
(R.C. § 733.53)
Statutory reference:
   Other duties of the law director, R.C. §§ 733.54 through 733.62
SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR
§ 35.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Council may, by a majority vote, merge the office of director of public
safety with that of director of public service, with one director to be
appointed for the merged department.
(R.C. § 733.03)
§ 35.61 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The safety-service director shall be appointed by the mayor and need
not be a resident of the city at the time of his appointment but shall become a
resident thereof within six months after his appointment unless this residence
requirement is waived by ordinance. He shall make rules and regulations for the
administration of the affairs under his supervision.
   (B)   Effective April 1, 2010, the residence requirement in division (A)
above shall be waived.
(Ord. 10-09, passed 4-6-10)
Statutory reference:
   Director of public service; qualifications, see R.C. § 735.01
§ 35.62 DUTIES.
   (A)   The safety-service director shall manage and supervise all public
works and undertakings of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (1)   The director shall supervise the improvement and repair of streets,
avenues, alleys, lands, lanes, squares, wharves, docks, landings, market
houses, bridges, viaducts, aqueducts, sidewalks, playgrounds, sewers, drains,
ditches, culverts, ship channels, streams, and watercourses, the lighting,
sprinkling, and cleaning of public places, and the construction of public
improvements and public works, except as otherwise provided in R.C. Title VII.
      (2)   The director shall manage municipal water, lighting, heating,
power, garbage, and other undertakings of the city, and parks, baths,
playgrounds, market houses, cemeteries, crematories, sewage disposal plants,
and farms, and shall make and preserve surveys, maps, plans, drawings, and
estimates. He shall supervise the construction and have charge of the
maintenance of public buildings and other property of the city not otherwise
provided for in R.C. Title VII. He shall have the management of all other
matters provided by the council in connection with the public service thereof.
      (3)   The director shall keep a record of his proceedings, a copy of
which, certified by him, shall be competent evidence in all courts.
(R.C. § 735.02)
   (B)   Under the direction of the mayor, the director shall be the executive
head of the police and fire departments and the chief administrative authority
of the charity, correction, and building departments. He shall have all powers
and duties connected with and incident to the appointment, regulation, and
government of these departments except as otherwise provided by law. He shall
keep a record of his proceedings, a copy of which, certified by him, shall be
competent evidence in all courts.
   (C)   The director shall make all contracts in the name of the city with
reference to the management of these departments, for the erection or repair of
all buildings or improvements in connection therewith, and for the purchase of
all supplies necessary for these departments.
(R.C. § 737.02)
§ 35.63 EXPENDITURES.
   The Safety-Service Director may make any contract, purchase supplies or
material, or provide labor for any work under the supervision of the Department
of Public Service involving not more than $50,000. When an expenditure within
the Department, other than the compensation of persons employed therein,
exceeds $50,000, such expenditure shall first be authorised and directed by
ordinance or resolution of the City Council. When so authorised and directed,
except where the contract is for equipment, services, materials, or supplies to
be purchased under R.C. § 713.23(D), 125.04, or 5513.01 or available from a
qualified non-profit agency pursuant to R.C. §§ 4115.31 to 4115,35, the Safety-
Service Director shall make a written contract with the lowest and best bidder
after advertisement for not less than two nor more than four consecutive weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, or as provided in R.C. §
7.16.
(Ord. 00-22, passed 5-2-00; Am. Ord. 15-1, passed 3-3-15)
CHAPTER 36: TAX POLICY
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Imposition of tax
   
36.04   Effective period
   
36.05   Return and payment of tax; mandatory filing
   
36.06   Collection at source
   
36.07   Declarations
   
36.08   Duties of the Tax Commissioner
   
36.09   Investigative powers of the Tax Commissioner; penalty for divulging
confidential information
   
36.10   Interest and penalties
   
36.11   Collection of unpaid taxes and refunds of overpayments
   
36.12   Violations; penalties
   
36.13   Board of Review
   
36.14   Allocation of funds
   
36.15   Credit allowed for tax paid in another municipality or foreign county
   
36.16   Saving clause
   
36.17   Appointment of Tax Commissioner
   
36.18   Acceptance of federal extensions
   
36.19   Generic form
   
36.20   Twelve-day occasional entry rule
   
36.21   $150 deminimus rule
   
36.22   Changes of tenants
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the city, there shall be, and is
hereby, levied a tax on wages, commissions, gambling winnings, and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 12-26, passed 10-23-12)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section, except as and if the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. The board created by and constituted as provided for in §
36.13 of this chapter.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation, or any other entity.
   CITY. The City of Cheviot, Ohio.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, or any other state, territory, or
foreign country or dependency.
   DOMICILE. Principal residence that the taxpayer intends to use for an
indefinite time and to which whenever he is absent he intends to return. A
domicile once acquired is presumed to continue until it is shown to have been
changed. Intention to change domicile will not effect such a change unless
accompanied by actual removal. Where a change of domicile is alleged, the
burden of proving it rests upon the person making the allegation.
   EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages. salary, commission, or other types of
compensation in the services of an employer.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, unit, or agency, or any other entity, whether or not organized for
profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission,
or other compensation basis.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on any day other than
December 31st.
   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GAMBLING WINNINGS. All winnings received from games of chance or schemes of
chance as reported to the taxpayer on Internal Revenue Form W-2G, Form 5754,
Federal Form 1040 line 21, or any other form required by the Internal Revenue
Service with respect to gambling winnings. Gambling winnings shall include all
winnings no matter where the winning occurred. Gambling winnings shall include,
but are not limited to, proceeds from bingo, keno, slot machines, casino games,
horse racing, dog racing, jai alai, sweepstakes, wagering pools, lotteries, and
prizes. When not specifically noted as taxable income in this chapter, gambling
winnings shall be included in “other compensation,” and shall be taxed as such.
Gambling losses are not deductible against gambling winnings unless the
taxpayer is deemed to be a professional gambler where gambling is the
taxpayer’s primary occupation for federal tax purposes. Gambling losses are not
deductible against any other taxable income.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form designed for reporting estimated
municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation for the reporting of that
municipal corporation's tax on income.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Total income of taxpayers from whatever source derived.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership, sale,
exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat. 2085, 26
U.S.C. 1, as amended.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cheviot, Ohio
   NET PROFITS. The net gain from all operations including those pertaining to
capital gains and losses of a business, profession, or enterprise after
provision for all ordinary and necessary expense, except taxes imposed by this
chapter, and federal and other taxes based on income, paid or accrued in
accordance with the accounting system used by the taxpayer for federal income
tax purposes, and, in the case of an association, without deduction of salaries
paid to partners or other owners.
   NON-RESIDENT. A person, whether an individual, association, corporation, or
other entity, domiciled outside of the city.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person that pays an individual any item included in the
taxable income of the individual, other than the individual's employer or that
employer's agent.
   OWNER. A partner of a partnership, a shareholder of an S corporation, a
member of a limited liability company, or other person with an ownership
interest in a pass-through entity.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership, S corporation, limited liability
company, or any other class of entity the income or profits from which are
given pass-through treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
   PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the term PERSON as applied to any association shall include
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office), factory, warehouse, or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or
more of his employees, regularly in attendance.
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. In the case of an employer having headquarter
activities at a place of business within a taxing municipality, the place of
business at which the headquarters is situated. In the case of any employer not
having its headquarter activities at a place of business within a taxing
municipality, the term means the largest place of business located in a taxing
municipality.
   QUALIFIED PLAN. A retirement plan satisfying the requirements under Section
401 of the Internal Revenue Code as amended.
   RESIDENT. A person, whether an individual, association, corporation, or
other entity, domiciled in the city.
   RESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An incorporated business entity
having an office, place of operations, or business site within the
municipality.
   RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY.  An unincorporated business entity
having an office or place of business within the municipality.
   RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
   S CORPORATION. A corporation that has made an election under Subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner of the city or the person executing
the duties of the aforesaid Commissioner.
   TAX PAYER. A person, whether an individual, partnership, association,
corporation, or other entity, required by this chapter to file a return or pay
a tax.
   TAX YEAR. The calendar year, or the fiscal year upon which net profits are
to be computed under this chapter and, in the case of a return for a fractional
part of a year, the period for which such return is required to be made.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 00-48, passed 12-19-00; Am. Ord. 03-04,
passed 3-4-03; Am. Ord. 12-26, passed 10-23-12)
§ 36.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
36.16 of this chapter, an annual tax, for the purposes specified in §
36.01 hereof, shall be, and is hereby, levied on and after January 1, 2013, at
the rate of two per cent per annum upon the following:
      (1)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, gambling winnings, and other compensation earned during the
effective period of this chapter by residents.
      (2)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, and other compensation earned, during the effective period of this
chapter, by non-residents for work done or service performed in the
municipality.
      (3)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned during the effective period of this chapter of all resident
unincorporated businesses, pass-through entities, professions, or other
activities, derived from work done, or services performed or rendered, or
business or other activities conducted in the municipality.
         (b)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits
earned by a resident owner of a resident unincorporated business entity or
pass-through entity not attributable to the municipality and not levied against
such unincorporated business entity or pass-through entity.
      (4)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits of all non-resident unincorporated businesses, pass-through entities,
professions, or other activities, derived from work done or services performed
or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in the municipality,
whether or not such unincorporated business entity has an office or place of
business in the municipality.
         (b)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits
earned by a resident owner of a non-resident unincorporated business entity or
pass-through entity not attributable to the municipality, and not levied
against such association or other unincorporated entity.
      (5)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net profits
earned by all corporations that are not pass-through entities from work done or
services performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in
the municipality whether or not such corporations have an office or place of
business in the municipality.
   (B)   Allocation of net profits. Where a person conducts a business both
within and outside the municipality, the portion of the entire net profits of
such business to be allocated as having been made within the municipality may
be determined from the records of such business, if such business has bona fide
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of its net profits
is attributable to that part of its activities conducted within the
municipality or at the option of the taxpayer may be determined by the
following formula, which shall be used if taxpayer has no bona fide records
showing net profits from Cheviot business activities, subject, however, to the
provisions of division (2) hereof.
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business
allocation percentage to be determined by:
         (a)   Ascertaining the percentage with the average net book value of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used in the business and
situated within the municipality, during the period covered by the return is of
the average net book value of all the real and tangible personal property owned
or used in the business, wherever situated, during such period.
         (b)   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the
business from sales made and services performed in the municipality, during the
period covered by the return, are of the total gross receipts from all sales
and services, wherever made or performed, during such period.
         (c)   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
commissions, and other compensation paid, during the period covered by the
return, to employees for services performed in the municipality is of the total
wages, salaries, commissions, and other compensation paid during such period to
all employees within and outside the municipality.
         (d)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) above, or such of the aforesaid percentages as
are applicable to the particular taxpayer, and dividing the total so obtained
by the number of percentages used in deriving said total.
            1.   A factor is applicable even though it may be allocable
entirely in or outside the municipality.
            2.   Provided, however, that in the event a just and equitable
result cannot be obtained under the formula provided for herein, the Board of
Review, upon application of the taxpayer or the Tax Commissioner, shall, under
uniform regulations adapted by the Board, have the authority to substitute
other factors or methods calculated to effect a fair and proper allocation.
   (C)   Operating loss carry-forward.
      (1)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained in any taxable year,
beginning with October 1, 1969, allocable to the municipality, may be applied
against the portion of the profit of succeeding tax years, allocable to the
municipality, until exhausted, but in no event for more than the five taxable
years immediately following the year in which the loss occurred. No portion of
a net operating loss shall be carried back against net profits of any prior
year.
      (2)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained shall be allocated to
the municipality in the same manner as provided herein for allocating net
profits to the municipality.
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner shall provide by Rules and Regulations the
manner in which such net operating loss carry-forward shall be determined.
   (D)   Consolidated returns.
      (1)   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted or required in
accordance with Rules and Regulations prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   In the case of a corporation that carried on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, the Tax Commissioner shall
require such information, in addition to the return hereinafter provided for,
as he may deem necessary to ascertain whether net profits are properly
allocated to the municipality. If the Tax Commissioner finds net profits are
not properly allocated to the municipality by reason of transactions with
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, he may require the filing of a
consolidated return or adjust such transactions so as to produce a fair and
proper allocation of the net profits to the municipality.
   (E)   Exception. The tax provided for herein shall not be levied upon the
military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the United States,
or upon the net profits of any civic, charitable, religious, fraternal, or
other organization specified in R.C. § 718.01 to the extent that such profits
are exempted from municipal income taxes under said section.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 98-51, passed 12-15-98; Am. Ord. 03-02,
passed 1-7-03; Am. Ord. 12-26, passed 10-23-12)
§ 36.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected, and paid with
respect to all income, winnings, and net profits, subject to the tax, earned on
or after January 1, 2013.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 12-26, passed 10-23-12)
§ 36.05 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; MANDATORY FILING.
   (A)   Dates and exemptions. On or before April 30th in each year the
following persons shall file a return with the Tax Commissioner:
      (1)   Each person who, engaged in business, or whose salary, wages,
commissions, or other compensation are subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter, whether or not tax be due thereon.
      (2)   Each resident who is engaged in business or who has salary, wages,
commissions or other compensation, whether or not a tax be due thereon.
      (3)   Each person who filed a return for the previous tax year, who had
salary, wages, commissions, or other compensation subject to the tax in that
previous tax year, even if no tax was due in that previous year.
   A taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis for federal income tax purposes
shall, beginning with his first fiscal year, any part of which falls within the
effective period of this chapter, file his return within four months from the
end of such year or period. The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to
provide by regulation that the return of an employer or employers from the
salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation of an employee, and paid by
him or them to the Tax Commissioner shall be accepted as the return required of
any employee whose sole income subject to tax under this chapter, is such
salary, wages, commissions, or other compensation.
   (B)   The return shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner on a form or forms
furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Tax Commissioner setting
forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation earned, and gross income from any business, profession, or other
activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross
income, earned during the preceding year and subject to said tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns, or other
information as the Tax Commissioner may require, including a statement that the
figures used in the return are the figures used in the return for federal
income tax, adjusted to set forth only such income as is taxable under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner may extend the time for filing of the annual
return upon the request of the taxpayer for a period of not to exceed six
months, or one month beyond any extension requested of or granted by the
Internal Revenue Service for filing of the Federal Income Tax Return. The Tax
Commissioner may require a tentative return, accompanied by payment of the
amount of tax shown to be due thereon by the date the return is normally due.
No penalty or interest shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is
filed and the final tax paid within the period as extended.
   (D)   (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall at the time of the filing
thereof pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes shown as due thereon;
provided, however, that where any portion of the tax so due shall have been
deducted at the source, pursuant to the provisions of §
36.06 of this chapter; or where any portion of said tax shall have been paid by
the taxpayer, pursuant to the provisions of §
36.07 of this chapter, or where an income tax, creditable against the Cheviot
tax pursuant to §
36.15 hereof, has been paid to another municipality, credit for the amount so
paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if
any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing said return.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
municipality is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or at his
election indicated on the return, such overpayment, or part thereof, shall be
refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $1 shall be
collected or refunded.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and limitations contained in §§
36.11 and
36.15. Such amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer's Cheviot tax liability, such taxpayer shall
make and file an amended Cheviot return, showing income subject to the
municipality tax based upon such final determination of federal tax liability,
and pay any additional tax shown due thereon, or make claim for refund of any
overpayment.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 10-1-91; Am. Ord. 98-51,
passed 12-15-98)
§ 36.06 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Each employer within, or doing business within, the municipality, who
employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis shall deduct at the time of the payment of such salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensation, the tax of two per cent of the gross
salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation due by said employer to
each said employee, and shall, on or before the last of April, July, October,
and January of each year, after the effective date of this chapter, make a
return and pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes so deducted during
the preceding calendar quarter. Said return shall be on a form or forms
prescribed by or acceptable to the Tax Commissioner and shall be subject to the
rules and regulations prescribed therefor by the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   Each employer in collecting said tax shall be deemed to hold the same,
until payment is made by such employer to the municipality, as a trustee for
the benefit of the municipality, and any such tax collected by such employer
from his employees shall, until the same is paid to the municipality, be deemed
a trust fund in the hands of such employer. Each employer shall be liable for
the payment of the tax required to be deducted and withheld, whether or not
such tax, in fact, has been withheld.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility, jointly and severally, of the
president and treasurer of each corporation required to withhold the tax from
wages of its employees under this section, to see that all such taxes so
withheld are paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this
section. In the event taxes withheld by a corporation from the salaries of its
employees are not paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of
this section, the president and treasurer of said corporation shall each be
criminally liable under the provisions of §
36.12 hereof.
   (D)   On or before April 30th of each year, each employer shall file a
withholding return, on a form or forms prescribed by and obtainable from the
Tax Commissioner, setting forth the names and addresses of all employees from
whose compensation the tax was withheld during the preceding calendar year, and
the amount of tax withheld from the listed employees and such other information
as may be required by the rules and regulations adopted by the Tax
Commissioner.
   (E)   Provided, however, that no person shall be required to withhold the
tax on the wages or other compensation paid domestic servants employed
exclusively in or about such person's residence. However, such domestic
servants shall be responsible for filing and paying their own returns and
taxes.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 98-51, passed 12-15-98)
§ 36.07 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not subject
to §
36.06 hereof, or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise, or
activity, shall file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the
estimated profit or loss from such business activity, together with the
estimated tax due thereon, if any.
   (B)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed on or before April 30th of each
year during the life of this chapter, or within four months of the date the
taxpayer first becomes subject to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the start of each fiscal year or period.
   (C)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or
obtainable from the Tax Commissioner. Credit shall be taken in said declaration
for Cheviot tax to be withheld from any portion of such income and for income
taxes to be paid to another taxing municipality for which credit is allowed
against Cheviot tax under §
36.15 hereof.
      (2)   A declaration of estimated tax to be paid the city shall be
accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated tax, less
credit for taxes withheld or paid to another municipality, and at least a
similar amount shall be paid on or before the last day of the seventh, tenth,
and thirteenth months after the beginning of the tax year.
      (3)   A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however, that
in case an amended declaration is filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon
shall be paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
   (D)   An amended declaration must be filed on or before January 31st of any
year, or in the case of a taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis, on or
before the date fixed by regulation of the Tax Commissioner, if it appears that
the original declaration made for such year underestimated the taxpayer's
income by 30% or more. At such time a payment which, together with prior
payments, is sufficient to pay taxpayer's entire estimated liability, shall be
made. If, upon the filing of the return, on or before January 31st, or the date
fixed by regulation, whichever is applicable, the difference between 70% of
said taxpayer's tax liability and the amount of estimated tax he actually paid
on or before January 31st, or the date fixed by regulation, whichever is
applicable, shall be subject to the interest and penalty provisions of §
36.10 hereof.
   (E)   On or before the last day of the fourth month of the calendar or
fiscal year following that for which the declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due the municipality shall
be paid therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
36.05 hereof.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69)
§ 36.08 DUTIES OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to collect and
receive the tax imposed by this chapter in the manner prescribed therein, and
to keep an accurate record thereof, and to report all moneys so received.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to enforce payment of
all income taxes owing the municipality, to keep accurate records for a minimum
of five years, showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a
declaration or make any return, including a return of taxes withheld, and to
show the dates and amounts of payments thereof.
   (B)   Said Tax Commissioner is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of
the Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and
regulations authorized or required by this chapter, relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to the collection and payment of taxes and the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including provisions for the
re-examination and correction of returns.
   (C)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has filed
a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the Tax Commissioner
may determine the amount of tax appearing to be due the municipality from the
taxpayer and may send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the amount
of tax so determined, together with interest and penalties thereon, if any.
   (D)   Subject to the consent of the Board of Review or pursuant to
regulation approved by the Board of Review, the Tax Commissioner shall have the
power to compromise any liability imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69)
§ 36.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER; PENALTY FOR DIVULGING
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner, or any of his authorized agents, is hereby
authorized to examine the books, papers, records, and federal income tax
returns of any employer, or taxpayer, or any person subject to, or whom the Tax
Commissioner believes subject to, the provisions of this chapter, for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was
made, to ascertain the tax or withholdings due under this chapter. Every such
employer, supposed employer, taxpayer, or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed
and required to furnish, upon written request of the Tax Commissioner, or his
duly authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities, and opportunity for
making such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to order any person,
presumed to have knowledge of the facts, to appear at the office of the Tax
Commissioner and to examine such person, under oath, concerning any income
which was or should have been returned for taxation, or withheld, or any
transaction tending to affect such income, and for this purpose may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and federal income tax returns, and the
attendance of all persons before him, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever
he believes such persons have knowledge of such income or information pertinent
to such inquiry.
   (C)   The refusal to produce books, papers, records, and federal income tax
returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any employer or person
subject, or presumed to be subject, to the tax or by any officer, agent, or
employee of a person subject to the tax or required to withhold tax, or the
failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this section or with an
order or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner authorized hereby shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable as provided in § 
36.12 hereof.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his tax
liability for a period of five years from the date his return is filed or the
taxes required to be withheld are paid.
   (E)   Any information gained as a result of any returns, investigations,
verifications or hearings before the Commissioner or the Board, required by the
ordinance or authorized by these rules and regulations shall be confidential
and no disclosure thereof shall be made except to municipal, county, state, or
federal taxing agencies, or, except for official purposes, or except in
accordance with proper judicial order. No person shall otherwise divulge such
information.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 94-38, passed 9-20-94)
§ 36.10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All taxes imposed and moneys withheld or required to be withheld by
employers under the provisions of this chapter, remaining unpaid after they
become due, shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-half per cent per
month.
   (B)   In addition to interest as provided in division (A) hereof, penalties
for failure to pay taxes and to withhold and remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter are hereby imposed as follows:
      (1)   In the case of taxpayers failing to pay the full amount of tax due,
a penalty of the higher of: (a) $5, or (b) one per cent per month or fraction
thereof, of the amount of the unpaid tax, if the tax is paid during the first
six months after said tax became due; a penalty of two per cent per month, or
fraction thereof, of the unpaid tax, if said tax is paid between the seventh
and twelfth months after said tax became due; and a penalty of four per cent
per month, or fraction thereof, of the amount of the unpaid tax, if said tax is
paid later than 12 months after it became due. The percentages herein
specified, when used, shall apply from the first month of delinquency.
      (2)   In the case of employers who fail to withhold and remit to the Tax
Commissioner the taxes to be withheld from employees, a penalty of the higher
of: (a) $10, or (b) two per cent per month or fraction thereof, of the unpaid
withholding, if paid during the first three months after it was due; a penalty
of four per cent per month, or fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if
paid during the fourth to sixth month, inclusive, after it was due; and a
penalty of five per cent per month or fraction thereof, of the unpaid
withholding, if paid later than six months after it was due.
      (3)   In the case of taxpayers failing to file a tax return in a timely
manner (April 30th for the following tax year), there shall be a penalty
imposed in the amount of $25.
   (C)   Exceptions. A penalty shall not be assessed on an additional tax
assessment made by the Tax Commissioner when a return has been filed in good
faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner; and provided further that, in the absence of fraud, neither
penalty nor interest shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment
resulting from a federal audit, providing an amended return is filed and the
additional tax is paid within three months after final determination of the
federal tax liability.
   (D)   Upon an appeal from the refusal of the Tax Commissioner to recommend
abatement of penalty and interest, the Board of Review may abate such penalty
or interest, or both.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 94-38, passed 9-20-94)
§ 36.11 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together with
any interest and penalties thereon, by suit as other debts of like amount are
recoverable. No additional assessment shall be made after three years from the
time of payment of any tax due hereunder; provided, however, there shall be no
period of limitation on an additional assessment in a case of a return that
omits gross income in excess of 25% of that required to be reported or in the
case of filing a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax, or in
the case of failure to file a return. In those cases in which the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal
statute of limitations the period within which an additional assessment may be
made by the Tax Commissioner shall be extended one year from the time of the
final determination of the federal tax liability.
   (B)   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for refund
is made within three years from the date on which such payment was made or the
return was due, or within three months after final determination of the federal
tax liability, whichever is later.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69)
§ 36.12 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter; or
      (2)   Make an incomplete, false, or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to withhold the tax from his employees and
remit such withholding tax to the Tax Commissioner;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or his employer's books, records, papers, and
federal income tax returns;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner and to produce his or
his employer's books, records, papers, or federal income tax returns upon order
or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to such person's or such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any older or
subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (9)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment on the estimated tax
for any year as required by §
36.07;
      (10)   Fail, as president or treasurer of a corporation, to cause the tax
withheld from the wages of the employees of such corporation pursuant to this
chapter to be paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of §
36.06 hereof; or,
      (11)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties, or interest imposed by this chapter; shall
be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If a person has been previously convicted of
an offense listed in §
36.12(A), any subsequent violation of §
36.12(A), or any subsection thereunder, shall be a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (B)   (1)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties
and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within three years
after the tax was due or the return was filed, whichever is later.
      (2)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under this chapter, or
any other ordinance in this chapter, shall be commenced within three years
after the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud,
failure to file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to
be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   The failure of any employer, taxpayer, or person to receive or procure
a return, declaration, or other required form shall not excuse him from making
any information return, return, or declaration, from filing such form, or from
paying the tax.
   (D)   The term "person" as used in this section shall, in addition to the
meaning prescribed in §
36.02 of this chapter, include in the case of an association or corporation not
having any partner, member, or officer within the municipality, any employee or
agent of such association or corporation who can be found within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 98-51, passed 12-15-98; Am. Ord. 99-02,
passed 3-2-99)
§ 36.13 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   A Board of Review consisting of three persons, appointed by the Mayor,
with the consent of Council, is hereby created. Board members shall receive
such compensation as Council may determine.
   (B)   Whenever the Tax Commissioner issues a decision regarding an income
tax obligation that is subject to appeal as provided in this section, or in an
ordinance or regulation of the city, the Tax Commissioner shall notify the
taxpayer at the same time of the taxpayer's right to appeal the decision and of
the manner in which the taxpayer may appeal the decision.
   (C)   Any person who is aggrieved by a decision by the Tax Commissioner and
who has filed with the city the required returns or other documents pertaining
to the municipal income tax obligation at issue in the decision may appeal the
decision to the Board of Review by filing a request with the Board. The request
shall be in writing, shall state with particularity why the decision should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 30 days after the Tax
Commissioner has issued the decision.
   (D)   The imposition of penalty and interest as prescribed in this Code is
not a sole basis for an appeal.
   (E)   The Board of Review shall schedule a hearing within 45 days after
receiving the request, unless the taxpayer waives a hearing. A majority of the
members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (F)   If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and may be represented by an attorney at law, certified public
accountant or other representative.
   (G)   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Commissioner's
decision or any part of that decision. The Board shall issue a decision on the
appeal within 90 days after the Board's final hearing on the appeal, and send
notice of its decision by ordinary mail to the petitioner within 15 days after
issuing the decision.
   (H)   The Board of Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt rules
governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions. Such
records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43.
Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Review created pursuant to
this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 00-33, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 00-48,
passed 12-19-00)
§ 36.14 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in the General Fund and said funds shall be disbursed in the following order,
to-wit:
   (A)   Such part thereof as shall be necessary to defray all costs of
collecting the taxes and the cost of administering and enforcing the provisions
hereof.
   (B)   Sixty per cent of net available tax receipts, exclusive of
administrative costs, received annually, shall be used to defray other
operating expenses of the municipality.
   (C)   At least 20% of net available income tax receipts received annually,
exclusive of administrative costs, shall be set aside and used for capital
improvements for the municipality.
   (D)   The remaining 20% of the net available income not expended in
divisions (A), (B) and (C) shall be used for the retirement of any municipal
indebtedness until there shall be no such indebtedness, at which time the
percentage of net available income allocated for capital improvements and
operating expenses shall be each increased ten per cent of all income derived
from this chapter, exclusive of administrative costs.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69)
§ 36.15 CREDIT ALLOWED FOR TAX PAID IN ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY OR FOREIGN COUNTY.
   (A)   Where a resident of the municipality is subject to a municipal income
tax in another municipality, he shall not pay a total municipal income tax on
the same income greater than the tax imposed at the higher rate.
   (B)   Resident individuals of Cheviot who are required to pay and do pay, a
tax to another municipality or foreign county on salaries, wages, commissions,
or other compensation for work done or services performed in such other
municipality or foreign county, or on net profits from businesses, professions,
or other activities conducted in such other municipality, may claim a credit of
the amount of tax paid by them or on their behalf for the same taxable period
to such other municipality or foreign county, but only to the extent of the tax
imposed by this chapter on such compensation or net profits.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions contained in §
36.11 hereof, or any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for refund
or credit under this section shall be made in such manner as the Tax
Commissioner may by regulation provided. No such claim for refund or credit
shall be allowed unless made on or before the date of filing the taxpayer's
final return unless such taxpayer's employer files with the Tax Commissioner a
list showing the tax withheld from such taxpayer's wages, salaries, or
commissions for other municipalities.
   (D)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by regulation
that a resident, working in another municipality imposing a tax on earned
income shall not be required to file a declaration under §
36.05 of this chapter or return under §
36.07 of this chapter, if the administrator of the income tax of such other
municipality advises the Tax Commissioner that a tax of two per cent or greater
is being deducted from the wages of such resident and is being paid to such
other municipality, and if the wages or other compensation subject to such
withholding are said resident's only income taxable under this chapter.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69; Am. Ord. 95-27, passed 8-1-95; Am. Ord. 98-51,
passed 12-15-98)
§ 36.16 SAVING CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm, or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section, or part of this
chapter, or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the
several groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein is found to be
unconstitutional or illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality,
or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section, or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council of the municipality that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid
sentence, or part thereof, not been included therein.
(Ord. 806, passed 8-26-69)
§ 36.17 APPOINTMENT OF TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Auditor shall be authorized to appoint a qualified Tax
Commissioner to be the Chief Administrative officer of the Income Tax Bureau.
He shall be appointed on a part-time basis at a salary to be set forth by City
Council from time to time.
   (B)   The Auditor shall be authorized to hire such clerical and other
personnel as he may deem necessary to efficiently carry on the work of the
Income Tax Bureau, the salary to be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 808, passed 9-23-69; Am. Ord. 99-21, passed 7-13-99)
§ 36.18 ACCEPTANCE OF FEDERAL EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has requested an extension for filing a federal
income tax return may request an extension for the filing of a city tax return.
The taxpayer shall make the request by filing a copy of the taxpayer's request
for a federal filing extension with the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   Any taxpayer not required to file a federal income tax return may
request an extension for filing a city tax return in writing.
   (C)   The request for extension shall be filed not later than the last day
for filing the city tax return as prescribed by ordinance or rule of the city.
   (D)   A valid extension request extends the due date for filing a return six
months from the original due date of such return.
   (E)   The city may deny a taxpayer's request for extension if the taxpayer:
      (1)   Fails to timely file the request;
      (2)   Fails to file a copy of the federal extension request;
      (3)   Owes the city any delinquent income tax or any penalty, interest,
assessment or other charge for the late payment or nonpayment of income tax;
      (4)   Has failed to file any required income tax return, report, or other
related document for a prior tax period.
   (F)   The granting of an extension for filing a city income tax return does
not extend the last date for payment of the tax; hence, penalty and interest
may apply to any unpaid tax during the period of extension at the rate set out
by §
36.10. No penalty shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is filed
and the final tax paid within the extension period provided all other filing
and payment requirements of the Tax Code have been met. Any extension by the
Tax Commissioner shall be granted with the understanding that declaration
filing and payment requirements have been fulfilled; however, if, upon further
examination it then becomes evident that declaration filing and payment
requirements have not been fulfilled, penalty and interest may be assessed in
full and in the same manner as though no extension had been granted.
(Ord. 00-48, passed 12-19-00)
§ 36.19 GENERIC FORM.
   The city shall accept a generic form of any return, report, or document
required to be filed if the generic form, once completed and filed, contains
all of the information required to be submitted with the city's prescribed
returns, reports or documents, and if the taxpayer or return preparer filing
the generic form otherwise complies with the rules or ordinances of the city
governing the filing of returns, reports or documents.
(Ord. 00-48, passed 12-19-00)
§ 36.20 TWELVE-DAY OCCASIONAL ENTRY RULE.
   The city shall not tax the compensation of an individual if all of the
following apply:
   (A)   The individual does not reside in the city;
   (B)   The compensation is paid for personal services performed by the
individual in the city on twelve or fewer days during the calendar year;
   (C)   In the case of an individual who is an employee, the principal place
of business of the individual's employer is located outside the city and the
individual pays tax on compensation described in division (B) of this section
to the city, if any, in which the employer's principal place of business is
located, and no portion of that tax is refunded to the individual.
   (D)   The individual is not a professional entertainer or professional
athlete, the promoter of a professional entertainment or sports event, or an
employee of such a promoter, all as may be reasonably defined by the city.
(Ord. 00-48, passed 12-19-00)
§ 36.21 $150 DEMINIMUS RULE.
   (A)   A nonresident employer, agent of such an employer, or other payer that
is not situated in the city shall not be required to deduct and withhold taxes
from the taxable income of an individual unless the total amount of tax
required to be deducted and withheld for the city on account of all of the
employer's employees or all of the other payer's payees exceeds $150 for a
calendar year.
   (B)   If the total amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld on
account of all of the nonresident employer's employees or all of the other
payer's payees exceeds $150 for a calendar year, the employer, agent of such an
employer or other payer must deduct and withhold taxes in each ensuing year
even if the amount required to be deducted and withheld in each of those
ensuing years is $150 or less, until such time that the tax so deducted and
withheld is $150 or less for three consecutive years.
(Ord. 00-48, passed 12-19-00)
§ 36.22 CHANGES OF TENANTS.
   (A)   Beginning July 1, 1993, and thereafter, within 30 days after a new
tenant occupies rental property of any kind within the city, all property
owners of rental property who rent to tenants of apartments, rooms, etc., shall
file with the Tax Commissioner a report showing the names, addresses, telephone
numbers, if available, social security numbers, and places of employment of
each such tenant who occupies an apartment, a room or rooms, etc., within the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Beginning July 1, 1993, and thereafter, within 30 days after a tenant
vacates an apartment, room or other rental property located within the city,
the property owner of such vacated rental property shall file with the Tax
Commissioner a report showing the date of vacating from the rental property and
identifying each tenant, and the forwarding address of each vacating tenant.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is subject to a penalty
of $25 for each violation.
(Ord. 1585, passed 6-1-93)
CHAPTER 36A: MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
Section
   
36A.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
      
36A.011   Authority to levy tax
      
36A.012   Purposes of tax; rate
      
36A.013   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
36A.02   Effective date
   
36A.03   Definitions
   
36A.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
      
36A.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
      
36A.042   Domicile
      
36A.043   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
   
36A.05   Collection at source
      
36A.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
      
36A.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
      
36A.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
36A.06   Income subject to net profit tax
      
36A.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
      
36A.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
      
36A.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
      
36A.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
      
36A.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
36A.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
36A.08   Credit for tax paid
      
36A.081   Credit for tax paid in another municipality or foreign county
      
36A.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
      
36A.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
      
36A.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
36A.09   Annual return
      
36A.091   Return and payment of tax
      
36A.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
      
36A.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
      
36A.094   Extension of time to file
      
36A.095   Amended returns
      
36A.096   Refunds
   
36A.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
36A.11   Audit
   
36A.12   Rounding
   
36A.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
      
36A.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
      
36A.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
      
36A.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
      
36A.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
36A.14   Confidentiality
   
36A.15   Fraud
   
36A.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
36A.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
36A.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
36A.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
36A.20   Adoption of rules
   
36A.21   $150.00 deminimus rule
   
36A.22   Change of tenants
   
36A.97   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
36A.98   Savings clause
   
36A.99   Violations; penalty
§ 36A.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 36A.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 36A.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the city, there shall be, and is
hereby, levied a tax on wages, commissions, gambling winnings, and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The current tax rate is 2%. Such rate is subject to change based upon
the existing need of the municipality.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.013 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am. Sub. H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 15-31, effective
January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends
Chapter 36 in accordance with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the
municipality to continue the income tax and withholding tax administration and
collection efforts on behalf of the municipality.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes to
R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   This chapter does not repeal the existing sections of
Chapter 36 for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends
Chapter 36 effective January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning
before January 1, 2016, the municipality shall continue to administer, audit,
and enforce the income tax of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and
ordinances and resolutions of the municipality as that chapter and those
ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Uncodified Section 2 of Am Sub H.B. 5, passed Dec 2014
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 36A.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(23)(d) of this section, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(1)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(1)(h)2., 3. and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net
profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed, by division (C)(1)
(h)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (C)(1)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carry forward deduction that
is available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant
to division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
36A.063(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
36A.063(E)(3)(b).
      If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity that
has made the election described in division (C)(47)(b) of this section, is not
a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(C)(23)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall
compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer
were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid
or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless
such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as
payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United
States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-
employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
      Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as allowing
the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed
as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes
of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT. Any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
36A.096(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
36A.062(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
36A.062(B)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (C)(2)(a)1., 2., 3. and 4. of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
36A.18, and shall have "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
36A.096(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW. Has same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   EXEMPT INCOME. Means all of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(11)(c) of this
section, unemployment compensation does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (C)(11)(l) of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income:
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(34) of this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (o)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
         (p)   1.   For qualifying wages described in §
36A.052(B)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
36A.052(E), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
            2.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(11)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(q)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(11)
(q)2.b. of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in §
36A.052.
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(11)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(11)(q) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C)(11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (12)   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (14)   INCOME. Means the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(14)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(14)(a)4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(14)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division (C)(11)(n) or division (C)(14)(e) of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         (d)   Gambling winnings. All winnings received from games of chance or
schemes of change as reported to the taxpayer on Internal Revenue form W-2G,
form 5754, federal form 1040 line 21, or any other form required by the
Internal Revenue Service with respect to gambling winnings. Gambling winnings
shall include all winnings no matter where the winning occurred. Gambling
winnings shall include, but are not limited to, proceeds from bingo, keno, slot
machines, casino games, horse racing, dog racing, jai alai, sweepstakes,
wagering pools, lotteries, and prizes. When not specifically noted as taxable
income in this chapter, gambling winnings shall be included in "other
compensation," and shall be taxed as such. Gambling losses are not deductible
against gambling winnings unless the taxpayer is deemed to be a professional
gambler where gambling is the taxpayer's primary occupation for federal tax
purposes. Gambling losses are not deductible against any other taxable income.
Credit for tax withheld or paid to another municipal corporation on such
winnings paid to the municipal corporation where winnings occur is limited to
the credit as specified in §
36A.081.
         (e)   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
      (15)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (16)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The "Internal Revenue Code of 1986," 100
Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
      (17)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity
created under §
36A.18.
      (19)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Means, in general terms, a status conferred
upon a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (20)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME. Means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
36A.062, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
36A.062, then reduced as provided in division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)
(a)2.a. or 3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      (21)   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cheviot and the joint economic
development district or joint economic development zone that levies an income
tax under R.C. § 718.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (22)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations,
      (23)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)(1)(h) of this
section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(23)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A publicly traded partnership may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (C)(23)(d)4. of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(23(d)3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(23)(d) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
      (26)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. Pension
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (29)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (30)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States Postal Service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course of its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      (32)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the municipality that
was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward
and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in
future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option. Division (C)(34)(b)2. of this section applies
only to those amounts constituting ordinary income.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(34)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(34)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   RELATED ENTITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(35)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(35)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (36)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
36A.042.
      (38)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (39)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (43)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (45)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (46)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (47)   (a)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(47)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of R.C. § 718.01 as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(47)(b)1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (48)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (49)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 18-05, passed 2-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see Ohio R.C. 718.01
§ 36A.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 36A.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
36A.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   Income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
36A.03(C)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
36A.03(C)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
36A.03(C)(1)(h). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
36A.062(E).
            3.   Section 36A.03(C)(14) provides the following: offsetting and
net operating loss carryforward treatment in §
36A.03(C)(14)(a)2.a.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
36A.03(C)(14)(a)2.b.; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
36A.03(C)(14)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
36A.03(C)(14)(a)4.
            4.   Pass through entity is defined in §
36A.03(C)(27).
         (b)   Exempt income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(11).
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
36A.03(C)(20)(b), and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
36A.03(C)(32).
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
36A.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
36A.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   Income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
36A.03(C)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
36A.03(C)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
36A.03(C)(1)(h). Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            3.   Pass through entity is defined in §
36A.03(C)(27).
         (b)   Exempt income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(11).
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
36A.062 of this chapter includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in §
36A.062(E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
36A.03(C)(20)(b), is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
36A.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
§ 36A.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 36A.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 36A.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
36A.052 or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) or of this section of taxes required
to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of
each calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of
this section shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax
Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
36A.091.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15) Penalty, see §
36A.99
Statutory reference:
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 36A.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. Worksite location does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
         If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing services for or
on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
principal place of work with respect to those qualifying wages for the purposes
of this section.
         For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that location shall be substituted for municipal
corporation wherever municipal corporation appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, presumed
worksite location means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
36A.051.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
36A.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
36A.051.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 36A.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the
total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount
that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the
name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall
provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under
this division. The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, each video lottery
terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a video lottery
sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with respect to
whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income
tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video lottery
sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall
provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each
information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
36A.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
§ 36A.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 36A.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   Net profit for a person other than an individual is defined in §
36A.03(C)(23).
         (b)   Adjusted federal taxable income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(1).
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
36A.03(C)(11).
      (3)   Apportionment means the apportionment as determined by §
36A.062.
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
36A.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 36A.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
36A.052.
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
36A.19(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
36A.19(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, wages, salaries, and other
compensation includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer.
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
         (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
      A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
36A.081.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
36A.03(C)(11)(l) and (C)(34)(a)4., by a municipal corporation to which the
taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add
the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was
apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 36A.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income;tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income of expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the city. A taxpayer that is required to file a
consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year shall file a
consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent taxable years
unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from the Tax
Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a change
in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3), and
(E)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
36A.03, by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
36A.03(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in this chapter, exclude the
property, payroll, and gross recespte of the pass through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in this chapter, include the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation, if the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-though entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in this chapter, exclude the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
36A.062 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combines tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 18-05, passed 2-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
§ 36A.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 36A.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
§ 36A.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
36A.091(G) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the 15th day of the 12th month of the taxable year,
90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (C)(1)(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with §
36A.091.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of
the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
36A.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
36A.091 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 36A.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 36A.081 CREDIT ALLOWED FOR TAX PAID IN ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY OR FOREIGN
COUNTY.
   (A)   Where a resident of the municipality is subject to a municipal income
tax in another municipality, he shall not pay a total municipal income tax on
the same income greater than the tax imposed at the higher rate.
   (B)   Resident individuals of Cheviot who are required to pay and do pay, a
tax to another municipality or foreign county on salaries, wages, commissions,
or other compensation for work done or services performed in such other
municipality or foreign county, or on net profits from businesses, professions,
or other activities conducted in such other municipality, may claim a credit of
the amount of tax paid by them or on their behalf for the same taxable period
to such other municipality of foreign county, but only to the extent of the tax
imposed by this chapter on such compensation or net profits.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions contained in §
36A.11, or any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for refund or
credit under this section shall be made in such manner as the Tax Commissioner
may by regulation provided. No such claim for refund or credit shall be allowed
unless made on or before the date of filing the taxpayer's final return unless
such taxpayer's employer files with the Tax Commissioner a list showing the tax
withheld from such taxpayer's waged, salaries, or commissions for other
municipalities.
   (D)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by regulation
that a resident, working in another municipality imposing a tax on earned
income shall not be required to file a declaration under §
36A.05 or return under §
36A.05, if the administrator of the income tax of such other municipality
advises the Tax Commissioner that a tax of 2% or greater is being deducted from
the wages of such resident and is being paid to such other municipality, and if
the wages or other compensation subject to such withholding are said resident's
only income taxable under this chapter.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the qualifying loss is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the qualifying tax rate is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
§ 36A.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
36A.081.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 36A.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
36A.096.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
36A.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
36A.096.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 36A.081 regarding
any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
§ 36A.09 ANNUAL RETURN
§ 36A.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
36A.051(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to
the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers shall file an annual municipal
income tax return with the municipality, regardless of income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of R.C. § 5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and file
the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
36A.092 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
36A.092, the provision in §
36A.092 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
36A.051(B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
THE DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
36A.051 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits
against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld
were not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, worksite location has the same meaning
as in §
36A.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
            The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation's resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15) Penalty, see §
36A.99
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 36A.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, the
Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator
considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the 181st day after the applicant's
active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 36A.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 36A.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the 15th day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 36A.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
36A.19 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by §
36A.19(A)(2) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the
period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements
of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)
(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
36A.096. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
§ 36A.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
36A.18.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
36A.10(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, withholding tax has the same meaning as in §
36A.10.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 36A.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 36A.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
36A.03(C)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 36A.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of $1 that equals or exceeds $.50 shall
be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of $1 that is less
than $.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole dollar. If a
person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the person shall round
all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 36A.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 36A.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
36A.062;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
36A.051.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 36A.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 36A.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 36A.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
36A.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
36A.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
36A.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
36A.99 for a violation of §
36A.15 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 36A.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15) Penalty, see §
36A.99
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 36A.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15) Penalty, see §
36A.99
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 36A.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an opinion of the Tax Administrator and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an opinion of the Tax Administrator.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
36A.15.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Commissioner; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 36A.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 36A.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality,
and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with the
municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the director of finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 36A.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
36A.18. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the 60th
day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board of Tax
Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed
and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
36A.096.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
36A.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
36A.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 36A.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 36A.21 $150.00 DEMINIMUS RULE.
   (A)   A nonresident employer, agent of such an employer, or other payer that
is not situated in the city shall not be required to deduct and withhold taxes
from the taxable income of an individual unless the total amount of tax
required to be deducted and withheld for the city on account of all of the
employer's employees or all of the other payer's payees exceeds $150 or less
for three consecutive years.
   (B)   If the total amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld on
account of all of the nonresident employer's employees or all of the other
payer's payees exceeds $150 for a calendar year, the employer, agent of such an
employer or other payer must deduct and withhold taxes in each ensuing year
even if the amount required to be deducted and withheld in each of those
ensuing years is $150 or less, until such time that the tax so deducted and
withheld is $150 or less for three consecutive years.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.22 CHANGES OF TENANTS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after a new tenant occupies rental property of any kind
within the city, all property owners of rental property who rent to tenants of
apartments, rooms, etc, shall file with the Tax Commissioner a report showing
the names, addresses, telephone numbers, if available, social security numbers,
and places of employment of each such tenant who occupies an apartment, a room
or rooms, etc., within the corporate limits.
   (B)   Within 30 days after a tenant vacates an apartment, room or other
rental property located within the city, the property owner of such vacated
rental property shall file with the Tax Commissioner a report showing the date
of vacating from the rental property and identifying each tenant, and the
forwarding address of each vacating tenant.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is subject to a penalty
of $25 for each violation.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid perbd are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutbns for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
36A.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
36A.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
§ 36A.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 2-29-15)
§ 36A.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
§§
36A.051, 36A.14(A), or 36A.15, by failing to remit municipal income taxes
deducted and withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or
imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of section 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 of the Internal
Revenue Code shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
36A.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality as required by §
36A.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter;
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term person shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
36A.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 15-31, passed 12-29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
         
51.   SEWAGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Safety-service director
   
50.02   Pursuit of and collection from nonpaying residents; late fees
   
50.03   Trash collection fee
§ 50.01 SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The safety-service director of the city shall have the power to establish
rules and regulations not specifically covered in this chapter for the
effective and efficient collection and disposal of the wastes of the residents
and commercial houses of the city.
('73 Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 PURSUIT OF AND COLLECTION FROM NONPAYING RESIDENTS; LATE FEES.
   (A)   The Safety Service Director is hereby authorized to pursue those
residents and businesses who have failed to pay the monthly garbage fee during
the period of time in which Ordinance No. 1536 was in effect.
   (B)   The Safety Service Director is authorized to assess late fees in the
amount of $10 per month for each month a resident or business is delinquent.
   (C)   The Safety Service Director is authorized to use any legal means
necessary to collect the garbage fee from residents and businesses who have not
paid in accordance with Ordinance No. 1536 while it was in effect. Such means
include, but are not limited to, the certification of the debt owed to the city
to the County Auditor in order to have the assessment placed on said residents'
or businesses' property tax bill.
(Ord. 1560, passed 11-17-92)
§ 50.03 TRASH COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby enacted a trash collection fee on all Cheviot
residences and businesses which shall be collected according to the rate
schedule listed in Exhibit A, which is attached to Ordinance No. 14-12 and made
a part hereof.
   (B)   Vacant parcels of real estate on which there is no structure shall not
be subject to the fee.
   (C)   Landlords and tenants shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of the fee if neither notifies the City of Cheviot who is the party
responsible for the payment of the fee.
   (D)   The City of Cheviot may undertake any method of collection of the fee
which, in its judgment, is most convenient and economical. Collection may be by
direct billing, by collection through a third party, such as a utility, or by
any other method. If collection is done through a third party, the contract may
provide that the third party charge appropriate service fees to the city and
collection fees to any delinquent resident or business.
   (E)   All residences and businesses shall be subject to the fee. There shall
be no provision for opting out, even if the resident or business elects to use
a different means for the disposal of its trash, except for businesses and
apartments using dumpsters, and only if the business or apartment has an
existing contract with a service provider as of the date of the passage of this
section.
   (F)   The Council may from time to time review the rate schedule contained
in Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 13-27 and modify it as it becomes necessary.
(Ord. 12-38, passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. 13-27, passed 11-19-13; Am. Ord. 14-12,
passed 5-6-14)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Consolidation of sewer district number one
   
51.03   Regulations for use of sewage system
   
51.04   Inspections
   
51.05   Installation of control and neutralization equipment
Sewage Lift Stations
   
51.10   Installation of sewage lift stations
   
51.11   Charges for operation and maintenance of sewage lift plants
Surcharge
   
51.15   Surcharge established
   
51.16   Basis of surcharge
   
51.17   Private sewage facilities
   
51.18   Private sewage facilities (pretreatment)
   
51.19   Failure to pay surcharge
Annexation Requirement
   
51.25   Annexation requirement for use of sewage system
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    B.O.D. (denoting biochemical oxygen demand). The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter, under standard
laboratory procedure in 5 days of 20°C (68°F.) expressed in parts per million
by weight.
   (B)    COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   (C)    COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation,
air conditioning, cooling, refrigeration, or other, but which shall be free
from odor and oil. It shall contain no polluting substances which would produce
B.O.D. or suspended solids, each in excess of 10 parts per million by weight.
   (D)    DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms occupied or designed to be
occupied as living and sleeping quarters for one or more persons and equipped
with the usual facilities for the preparation and cooking of food.
   (E)    INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes, as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
   (F)    NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage which, when analyzed, shows by weight a daily
average of not more than 2,500 pounds (300 parts per million) of suspended
solids; not more than 2,000 pounds (240 parts per million) of B.O.D.; and not
more than 417 pounds (50 parts per million) of soluble matter (grease and oil),
each per million gallons of daily flow.
   (G)    PERSON, ENTERPRISE, ESTABLISHMENT, or OWNER. Any individual, firm,
company, association, society, corporation, or group using the sewage system.
   (H)    pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions,
in grams per liter of solution. Is used to indicate the concentration of free
acid and alkali.
   (I)    PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by a public authority.
   (J)    SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses), office buildings, factories, or
institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial wastes.
   (K)    SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   (L)    SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   (M)    SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, and
disposing of sewage.
   (N)    SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids.
   (O)    STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes; it may,
however, carry cooling waters and unpolluted waters.
   (P)    UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water or waste containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali; phenols or other
substances imparting taste and odor in receiving waters; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state, or solution; and noxious or odorous
gases. It shall contain not more than 10,000 parts per million by weight of
dissolved solids, of which not more than 2,500 parts per million shall be as
chloride, with permissible volume subject to review by the service director;
and not more than 10 parts per million each of suspended solids and B.O.D. The
color shall not exceed 50 parts per million.
   (Q)    SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   (R)    SEWAGE LIFT STATION. A pump or other mechanical device used for
lifting sewage from a sewer system on a lower level to one on a higher level,
and shall include the housing of such pump and all sewer pipes or conduits
leading from a lower sewer system to the pump and from the pump to the higher
level sewer system.
('73 Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 CONSOLIDATION OF SEWER DISTRICT NUMBER ONE.
   This council authorizes and consents to the completion of the consolidation
of sewer districts and other areas of the county into sewer district number
one, as set forth in the resolution of the Board of County Commissioners of
Hamilton County, Ohio, passed on December 4, 1963, to include the City of
Cheviot for the purpose of constructing water and/or sewer improvements and
providing service therein as authorized by law, particularly pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 6103, Chapter 6117, and § 133.06; however, the construction or the
maintenance, repair, and operation of any sewer or water improvement for local
service within the city shall not be undertaken by the county unless authorized
by ordinance or resolution of this council; and provided, further, that the
construction of any water improvement shall not be undertaken by the county
within the corporate limits of the City of Cheviot for water service therein
unless the plans, specifications, and estimates of cost therefor have been
approved by this council.
('73 Code, § 51.02)
§ 51.03 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated by the safety-service director as
combined sewers or storm sewers.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any of the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
(65°C.).
      (2)   Any water or wastes which contain grease or oil or other substances
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 32°
and 150°F.
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or mineral oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (4)   Any water or wastes that contain more than 10 parts per million by
weight of the following gases: hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, or nitrous
oxide.
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or triturated.
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, chemical residues, paint residues, or any other
solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage system.
      (7)   Any water or wastes, acid or alkaline in reaction, and having
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures and
equipment of the sewage system, or to human beings. Free acids and alkalis of
such wastes must be neutralized at all times, within a permissible range of pH,
between 5.5 and 9.5.
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair.
      (9)   Any water or wastes which, for a duration of 15 minutes, have a
concentration greater than 5 times that of "normal" sewage as measured by
suspended solids and B.O.D., and/or which are discharged continuously at a rate
exceeding 1,000 gallons per minute.
      (10)   Any other water, waste, or substance which can or does cause
damage to the sewage system of the city, or which creates, or can create, a
hazard to human beings or animals, shall be subject to control or be barred
from entering the sewage system, as determined by the safety-service director.
   (D)   No sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids shall be
discharged into the public sewer system other than those admissible to the
Cincinnati Public Sewer System under the ordinances of the City of Cincinnati
and the rules and regulations of the city manager of the City of Cincinnati
promulgated pursuant thereto, as are now or may hereafter be in effect.
('73 Code, § 51.03)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The safety-service director, city engineer, or their representatives,
shall be empowered to enter upon any premises or properties, public or private,
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing
of waters, wastes, or substances being discharged into the sewer system, or of
pipes, connections, equipment, or other facilities utilized in the discharge of
these waters, wastes, and substances into the sewer system.
   (B)   The safety-service director, city engineer, or their representatives,
may make whatever tests or samplings they deem necessary to determine the
nature or content of waters, wastes, and substances being discharged into the
sewer system, or their effect upon the pipes, equipment, or facilities of the
sewer system, and, in addition, they may, as they deem necessary, engage
testing laboratories for these purposes. The services of such testing
laboratories shall be paid for by the person, establishment, or owner as to
which such tests are made.
   (C)   The safety-service director shall be authorized and empowered to
determine and prescribe the measures, means, or procedures which he deems
necessary to prevent damage to the sewage system of the city, or hazard to
human beings or animals. Such determination shall be communicated in writing to
the person, owner, or establishment that has discharged, or is about to
discharge, waters, wastes, or substances into the sewage system which could
cause damage to the sewers or hazard to human beings or animals. Thereupon,
such person, owner, or establishment shall proceed with the measures prescribed
by the safety-service director.
   (D)   The written notice provided for in §
51.04 of this chapter to be given by the safety- service director to a person,
establishment, or owner shall be served by personal delivery, or certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known business address, if served
upon a business, or at the last known residence address, if not served upon a
business. The notice shall state further that the corrective measures specified
therein shall be taken or commenced not later than 10 days following delivery
of the notice. If commenced within the 10-day period, the corrective measures
shall be completed with due diligence.
   (E)   However, such person, establishment, or owner shall not be relieved or
released from compliance with the provisions of this chapter, either during the
10-day period or during the installation or construction of the corrective
measures. Instead, such measures must be taken to prevent violation or
continued violation of this chapter as are satisfactory to the safety-service
director.
('73 Code, § 51.04)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION OF CONTROL AND NEUTRALIZATION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Installation of control and neutralization equipment or other
facilities for the treatment or control of waters, wastes, or substances may be
required to prevent damage.
   (B)   A recording instrument or graph shall be attached to the control or
neutralization equipment, which shall indicate on a chart a continuous and
permanent record of the acid or alkaline content of the waters, wastes, or
other substances in question.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
control and neutralization equipment or other facilities to be utilized in the
treatment or control of waters or wastes shall be submitted for the approval of
the safety-service director, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing, and necessary permits
received.
   (D)   Where such facilities are provided for the control or neutralization
of waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense, and shall be subject to
periodic inspection by the safety-service director.
   (E)   The owner shall maintain operating records and shall submit to the
safety-service director, in a form prescribed by the safety-service director, a
summary report of the character of the influent and effluent, to show the
performance of the treatment facilities. The frequency of such reports shall be
determined by the safety-service director.
('73 Code, § 51.05)
Penalty, see § 51.99
SEWAGE LIFT STATIONS
§ 51.10 INSTALLATION OF SEWAGE LIFT STATIONS.
   The installation, operation, and maintenance of sewage lift stations in
connection with sewer systems being installed in new residential developments
will be permitted in those instances where it is demonstrated that a gravity
outlet for sewage is not reasonably available because of lack of accessibility
or because of exorbitant costs. The pump used in these lift stations shall be a
factory-assembled duplex pump or duplex ejector supplied by a reputable
manufacturer. No lift station shall be installed or constructed until the plans
and site location for the installation and construction have been approved by
the safety-service director.
('73 Code, § 51.06)
§ 51.11 CHARGES FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE LIFT PLANTS.
   (A)   The subdivision plat shall include a statement that the subdivision is
served by a sewage lift station, and shall include an agreement that the owners
or their successors and assigns of all lots in the subdivision will pay the
charges for operation, maintenance, repairs, and replacements levied by the
city, that, if such charges are not paid, they shall become a lien against the
property, and that unpaid charges may be certified to the county auditor for
collection on the tax duplicate as other taxes are collected. The sewage lift
station shall be considered as an integral part of the sewer system shown on
the subdivision improvement plan and all rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   The charges to cover the estimated cost of operating and maintaining
sewage lift stations shall be as follows:
      (1)   At the time application is made for a permit to construct a sewer
system to be served by a lift station, the developer shall deposit with the
city the sum of $2,000.
      (2)   An account shall be kept of the cost of inspecting, maintaining,
and operating the lift station for 3 years from the date the lift station is
certified as ready for operation by the safety-service director of the city,
and is accepted by the State Board of Health of Ohio.
      (3)   Each dwelling unit connected to the sewer system served by a sewage
lift station shall be subject to an annual service charge of $10, which charge
is made a lien as of January 1 of each year upon the corresponding lot, parcel
of land, or premise. This annual service charge shall be in effect for the 3-
year period referred to in §
51.11(B)(2).
      (4)   The developer shall maintain the lift station in good operating
condition for the 3-year period referred to in §
51.11(B)(2), and shall assume the cost of any inspections deemed necessary by
the safety-service director of the city. In the event that the developer should
fail or refuse to maintain the lift station in good operating condition for the
period stated, the city shall be authorized to apply such portion of the
deposit made by the developer and/or the annual service charges provided by §
51.11(B)(3) as may be necessary to pay for the cost of any inspections of the
lift station deemed necessary by the safety-service director, and for that cost
of maintaining the lift station in good operating condition. At the end of the
3-year period, any portion of the deposit given by the developer and not
required by the city for inspection and maintenance of the lift stations, as
provided in §
51.11(B)(5), shall be returned to the developer.
      (5)   In the event that, during the 3-year period, the deposit of the
developer and the annual service charges shall be insufficient for the costs of
inspection and maintenance of the lift stations, then the portion of the cost
of inspection and maintenance in excess of the deposit and annual service
charges shall be assessed against the parcels of property connected to or
benefited by the designated lift station. If the portion of such cost
attributable to the benefited property is not paid by April 1, it will be
certified, together with interest at 5% per annum, to the county auditor for
collection on the following December tax duplicate, or as otherwise directed by
council of the city.
      (6)   During February of each year, the director shall certify to the
city treasurer the names of the owners of all parcels of property connected
during the previous calendar year to the sewer system served by the designated
sewage lift station, the number of dwelling units on the parcel, and, so far as
possible, the mailing addresses of the owners. By March 1 of each year the city
treasurer, shall notify, by postcard notice, each of the property owners that
the annual sewage pumping charge is due and payable by April 1, and that if the
charge is not paid by that time, it will be certified, together with a penalty
of 5%, to the county auditor for collection by the county treasurer and the
director shall certify any unpaid charges together with the penalty annually on
or before the second Monday in September to the county auditor for collection
on the following December tax duplicate.
('73 Code, § 51.07)
SURCHARGE
§ 51.15 SURCHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   There is charged to each lot, parcel of land, building, or premises
discharging sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids other than
"normal sewage" either into the metropolitan sewage system, into a stream, or
in a manner contrary to law, the surcharge established herein, in addition to
the charge now or hereafter fixed for "normal sewage."
('73 Code, § 51.08)
§ 51.16 BASIS OF SURCHARGE.
   The basis of the surcharge shall be determined on either or both of 2
constituents of the water or wastes:
   (A)   Total suspended solids, and
   (B)   B.O.D., 5 days at 20°C. and as herein provided.
   (C)   When either or both the total suspended solids and B.O.D. of a water
or waste accepted for admission to the city sewage works exceeds the value of
these constituents for "normal sewage," the excess concentration in either or
both, as the case may be, shall be evaluated volumetrically in terms of "normal
sewage" and be subject to surcharge on the volume derived in accordance with
the following formula:
                Sv = (Sw-2500) X 0.65 X F X 133,690
                  2,500
                   plus (Bw-2000) X 0.65 X F X 133,690
                     2,000
   which reduced to its simplest form is
   Sv = F ( (Sw-2500) 35 plus (Bw-2000) 43).
      (1)   Sv is the derived volume of wastes in cubic feet subject to
surcharge.
      (2)   Sw is the pounds per million gallons of suspended solids in the
wastes as discharged.
      (3)   2,500 is the pounds per million gallons of suspended solids in the
"normal sewage."
      (4)   Bw is the pounds per million gallons of B.O.D. in the wastes as
discharged.
      (5)   2,000 is the pounds per million gallons of B.O.D. in "normal
sewage."
      (6)   0.65 is factor allowance for 65% degree of purification. (Present
B.O.D. requirement for Cincinnati Pool established by Ohio River Valley Water
Sanitation Commission.)
      (7)   F is the flow expressed in million gallons of the wastes as
discharged.
      (8)   133,690 is factor to convert million gallons to cubic feet.
      (9)   The equivalent volume of "normal sewage" as derived from the excess
above the normal strength of any water and wastes shall be subject to a
surcharge for the volume of equivalent "normal sewage" as computed from the
formula, at a flat rate of $.03 for each 100 cubic feet, as above computed.
('73 Code, § 51.09)
§ 51.17 PRIVATE SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   Where an industry otherwise producing or now discharging any sewage or waste
into a stream, or otherwise disposing of such sewage or waste contrary to law,
contemplates providing its own proper facilities for the treatment of this
sewage or waste instead of utilizing the metropolitan sewage disposal system,
this industry or producer may, by special agreement with the City of
Cincinnati, entered into within 6 months after the effective date of ordinance
No. 25-1953 of the City of Cincinnati, bind itself to construct its own proper
facilities for the treatment of its sewage and wastes within 12 months after
the effective date of the sewerage surcharge provided for in the ordinance. If
any such industry or waste producer provides satisfactory treatment facilities
within the prescribed time, it shall be entitled to a refund of any sewerage
service charges or surcharges paid by it.
('73 Code, § 51.10)
§ 51.18 PRIVATE SEWAGE FACILITIES (PRETREATMENT).
   Where an industry now or hereafter discharging any waste into a sewer
connected to the public sewer system contemplates providing facilities for
pretreatment of such wastes so as to reduce the strength of the waste, the
industry may, by special agreement with the City of Cincinnati, entered into
within 6 months after the effective date of ordinance No. 25-1953 of the City
of Cincinnati, bind itself to construct such pretreatment facilities within 12
months after the effective date of the sewerage surcharge made pursuant to the
ordinance. If any industry provides satisfactory pretreatment within the
prescribed time, it shall be entitled to a refund in an amount equal to the
difference between the surcharge actually paid and the surcharge that would
have been paid had such pretreatment facilities been in operation on the date
that the sewerage surcharge went into effect.
('73 Code, § 51.11)
§ 51.19 FAILURE TO PAY SURCHARGE.
   If the sewerage service charge or surcharge established herein is not paid,
or sewage industrial waste, water, or other liquids are discharged into the
public sewer system in violation of this chapter, the city shall have the right
to shut off such water supply, or to remove or close sewer connections, or
both, until payment is made or the provisions of this chapter complied with.
('73 Code, § 51.12)
ANNEXATION REQUIREMENT
§ 51.25 ANNEXATION REQUIREMENT FOR USE OF SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city shall refuse the use of the sewer facilities of the city to
any territory north of the Westwood-Northern Boulevard unless and until the
territory becomes annexed to the city.
   (B)   No annexation proceedings for any of the territory shall be initiated,
nor shall any annexation proceedings for any of the territory be recognized or
approved by the city, until an agreement has been reached between the Hamilton
County Commissioners and the city for the relief of the sewer conditions on
Fearman and Bruestle Avenues in the city.
   (C)   The Cheviot Evangelical United Brethren Church shall be permitted to
connect a sanitary sewer only, from its property on the Westwood-Northern
Boulevard into the Washington Avenue sewer of the city at Smith Road. The
entire work of connecting the sewer, including permit and inspection fees,
shall be done by the church at its own expense and shall be performed to the
satisfaction of the city engineer.
('73 Code, § 51.13)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
51.03(A), (B), (C), shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50. Each day's
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city is authorized
to bring or institute any appropriate action, in law or equity, to restrain,
abate, or correct any violation of this chapter, or to collect damages for
destruction or deterioration of, or injury to any part of the sewer system or
other property belonging to the city, or injury to its employees.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
         
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
         
75.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
77.   SCHOOL BUSES
         
78.   PEDESTRIANS
         
79.   ASSEMBLAGES AND PARADES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope of title
   
70.03   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.04   Prohibition against resisting traffic officer
   
70.05   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.051   (Reserved)
   
70.052   Emergency and public safety vehicles exempt
   
70.06   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.07   Prohibitions on use of freeways
   
70.08   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.09   Fines; court costs
   
70.10   Distributing cards, stickers, etc.
   
70.11   Deliveries in the business districts, restrictions
   
70.12   Snow emergency
   
70.13   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
70.145   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Signal lights
   
70.17   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.18   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.19   (Reserved)
   
70.20   Prohibition against unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.21   Prohibition against alteration, defacing, or removal
   
70.22   Duties of safety-service director; traffic control
   
70.23   Damaging street surface
   
70.24   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. §
4501.01 shall apply to this Title, Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the
municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Title and Chapter 95, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
      ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side
of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
      ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
      BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
      BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for
use as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
      BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
      CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or
used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
      CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
      CROSSWALK.
         (a)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included
within the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or,
in the absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
         (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition,
there shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
      DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
      ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A "class 1 electric bicycle", a "class 2 electric
bicycle", or a "class 3 electric bicycle" as defined below.
         (a)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (c)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
      EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended
for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
      EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
      FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
      FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse,
while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
      GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load
thereon.
      HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
      HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or
road surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road
sweeper, mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle
designed for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
      HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
      HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark
mode between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when
in operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
      INTERSECTION.
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
         (b)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting
highways include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any
two roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
         (c)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless
of the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2)
of this definition:
            1.   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been
designated on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections,
the two intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
            2.   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
            3.   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
      LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
      LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
      LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100
pounds that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power,
and has an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles
per hour when propelled by the electric motor.
      MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.    Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power
shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not
designed for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging
machinery, well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery,
and trailers designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place
of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25
miles per hour or less.
      MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
      MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels
or one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
      MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used
by, a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight miles per hour.
      MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
      OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
      OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
      PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
      PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal
delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly
suggests otherwise.
      PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
      POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle
by means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the
towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped
loads such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
      POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic,
or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
      PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
         (b)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) to (D), or
4511.74(A);
         (c)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 to 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
         (e)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (a),
(b), (c) or (d) of this definition.
      PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road,
including any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road,
within a shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or
recreation facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to
travel without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but
does not include a road within a private gated property where access is
restricted at all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area,
or a private grade crossing.
      PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used
for vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
         (a)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract
to a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
         (b)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
         (c)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
         (d)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
         (e)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical
service to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE
, shall be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person
to a hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a
hospital;
         (f)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
      RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
      RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority
of a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of
the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
      RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
      RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a
motor vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
         (a)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly
in a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
         (b)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
      ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
      RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
      SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by
adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
      SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers
which is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and SCHOOL BUS does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
      SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of
its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
      SHARED-USE PATH.    A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
shared-use path also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and
non- motorized users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is
intended to be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or
other similar uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has
historically been reserved for non-motorized use.
      SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
      STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state
route number and so marked.
      STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
      STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which
stop signs are erected.
      STOPPING  or STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
      THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
      TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
      TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed
and used to carry property.
      URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
      VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
      WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) ('73 Code, §§ 70.02, 74.27)
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF TITLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.011, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02, and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04) ('73 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.03 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as to willfully elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring his motor vehicle to a stop.
(R.C. § 4511.02) ('73 Code, § 70.03)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender's conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender's
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) ('73 Code, §§ 70.03, 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING TRAFFIC OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provisions of this Title. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title with the enforcement of
the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing official business, see §
136.11
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.13
§ 70.05 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
('73 Code, § 70.03) (R.C. § 4511.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.051 RESERVED.
Editor's note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 2001 S-8 supplement of the
Code of Ordinances. See §
70.02 for current provisions regarding exceptions to this title.
§ 70.052 EMERGENCY AND PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132, 4511.14,
4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27,
4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35,
4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43,
4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
§ 70.06 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) ('73 Code, §§ 74.05, 74.06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.07 PROHIBITIONS ON USE OF FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.08 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.09 FINES; COURT COSTS.
   (A)   All fines other than those paid in the mayor's court shall be paid at
the Traffic Violations Bureau of the City of Cheviot, 3814 Harrison Avenue,
Cheviot, Ohio, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m.
   (B)   Court costs. Costs of court shall be $75, which shall include the
state reparation fund. Subpoena fees for witnesses shall be $6, which shall be
an additional part of the costs of court, as well as urinalysis fees, blood
test fees, hospital emergency room fees, or other chemical test fees.
   (C)   In addition to the costs and fees listed in division (B) above, there
shall also be taxed as costs any charges for spoken language or sign language
interpreters at the rate of $70 per hour. Whenever an employee of the City of
Cheviot must serve a writ or a subpoena, or whenever an employee of the City of
Cheviot must serve a complaint upon a defendant for a violation of §§
136.15 or
136.18 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances (failure to obey a citation or court
order), the mayor or magistrate may assess additional costs in the amount of
that employee’s salary or per diem compensation, and any other extraordinary
expenses, including overtime, which shall be paid into the general fund of the
city.
(Ord. 1575, passed 2-16-93; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 3-21-06)
§ 70.10 DISTRIBUTING CARDS, STICKERS, ETC.
   No person shall place or affix, or cause to be placed or affixed in or upon
any vehicle parked or standing upon a highway, any card, ticket, advertisement,
or paper. Any person, firm, or corporation whose name appears upon any such
card, ticket, advertisement, or paper as the owner or maker of or dealer in the
things advertised shall be prima facie deemed to have caused the distribution
of such card, ticket, advertisement, or paper.
('73 Code, § 74.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.11 DELIVERIES IN THE BUSINESS DISTRICTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall make deliveries in the business districts of the city during
the period from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Mondays through Fridays.
('73 Code, § 74.18)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.12 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When snow, sleet, freezing rain, or other weather conditions cause or
appear likely to cause, in the judgment of the mayor or a person designated by
him, slippery or hazardous conditions which might lead to serious congestion or
hazard, the mayor or a person designated by him may declare a "snow emergency."
The mayor or a person designated by him shall also declare the termination of
the snow emergency as soon as conditions permit.
   (B)   Snow emergency routes are defined as through streets, or portions of
through streets, designated by official signs on one or both sides thereof,
installed by order of the mayor or a person designated by him. The mayor or a
person designated by him is authorized and directed to designate such streets
as "snow emergency routes" which for the safety or convenience of the public
and the accommodation of traffic should be kept open and clear in times of snow
emergency.
   (C)   During the period of any "snow emergency," no vehicle may be parked on
any "snow emergency route" as defined in this section, provided that special
signs are erected indicating a snow emergency route.
   (D)   A vehicle parked on any "snow emergency route" at the time the snow
emergency is declared, shall be removed by the owner within 3 hours if such
emergency is declared between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.; or prior to 9:00 a.m. of
the following morning, if the emergency is declared between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Nothing in this section shall permit any vehicle to be
parked in violation of any other parking restriction previously established by
law or by erection of signs by order of the mayor or a person designated by
him.
('73 Code, § 71.53)
   (E)   (1)   Any person who has received a citation tag notifying him of a
violation of this section may, within 168 hours of the issuance of the
citation, present the citation to the police department of the city and pay the
sum of $40 for the violation, or register the citation for hearing in the
mayor’s court.
      (2)   Any person guilty of a violation of this section three or more
times in one year shall be required to appear in the mayor’s court. Conviction
under this section shall subject the person to a fine not to exceed $100 plus
costs of court.
      (3)   Whenever the recipient of a citation under this section does not
pay the sum of $40 or register the citation for hearing in the mayor’s court
within the time specified in this section, the fine shall be doubled. If a
warrant is issued by the police department for the nonpayment, the person so
served shall be required to appear in the mayor’s court and upon conviction
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 plus costs of court, subject,
however, to the provisions of (E)(2) above.
(Am. Ord. 05-31, passed 12-6-05)
§ 70.13 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the revised code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 70.145 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, port authority, or township or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) ('73 Code, §§ 70.04, 70.11, and 70.12)
§ 70.16 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) ('73 Code, §§ 70.13 and 70.25; Am. Ord. 1007, passed 9-9-75)
§ 70.17 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.18 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   “Walk” or the symbol of a walking person. Pedestrians facing this
signal may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall
be given the right-of-way by the operators of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t walk” or the symbol of an upraised palm. No pedestrian shall
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal.
   (C)   “Wait.” Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
continued use of pedestrian-control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those
signals were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
(R.C. § 4511.14) ('73 Code, § 72.26)
§ 70.19 (RESERVED).
Editor’s note:
   This section, formerly containing provisions regarding flashing traffic
signals, has been deleted because the underlying statute, R.C. § 4511.15, was
repealed.
§ 70.20 PROHIBITION AGAINST UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) ('73 Code, § 70.14)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.21 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALTERATION, DEFACING, OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person without lawful authority shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
divisions (A)(1) or (3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If a violation of divisions (A)(1) or (3) of this section creates a
risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of divisions (A)(1) or (3) of this section
causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or controlled
by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division(A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.22 DUTIES OF SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR; TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The safety-service director is authorized to:
   (A)   Place and maintain traffic-control devices required by the traffic
code and such other traffic-control devices as he shall deem necessary for the
proper control of traffic.
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (C)   Place turning markers within or at the entrance to an intersection
where traffic conditions are such as to require it. All operators of vehicles
shall be governed by such markers.
   (D)   Mark lanes for traffic on roadways at such places as he may deem
necessary for the safe and expeditious direction of traffic.
   (E)   Establish crosswalks at such places as he shall deem necessary, and
shall designate them by appropriate marks or signs.
   (F)   The safety-service director shall have authority to close any highway
or portion thereof to vehicular traffic, except that requiring access to, or
egress from premises not accessible except by the highway. This authority shall
be exercised only in cases where it is necessary or expedient to do so in order
to provide safe places in which the children or residents of the neighborhood
may play. These play streets shall be properly marked while so restricted. It
shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon the restricted highway while it is
so restricted, except as permitted by this section.
('73 Code, §§ 70.06 through 70.10, 72.50)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (B) and (C)
§ 70.23 DAMAGING STREET SURFACE.
   Whenever in the judgment of the safety-service director and city council any
highway or part thereof would be injured or damaged by general use by vehicles
having solid tires or by vehicles exceeding in gross weight or in weight per
inch of tire width the limits which he shall determine to be safe for such
highway or part thereof, he shall erect appropriate traffic signs prohibiting
the operating of vehicles having solid tires, or indicating and designating
such weight limits, and it shall be unlawful to operate over any highway, or
part thereof, any vehicle having solid tires or exceeding the weight limits,
without securing a permit as provided in §
74.46.
('73 Code, § 71.42)
§ 70.24 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device's speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A "voice-operated or hands-free" device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender's right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender's payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender's payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Operator's License Regulations
   
71.01   False statements; fraudulent application for license
   
71.02   License required as driver or commercial driver; unlicensed operation
on private property
   
71.03   Display of license
   
71.04   Improper display, possession, or transfer of license
   
71.05   Permitting minor to operate vehicle
   
71.06   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.061   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.062   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.063   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.064   Failure to reinstate license
   
71.07   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab
   
71.08   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.09   Annual license tax
Suspension
   
71.10   Suspension of driver's license; license suspended by court of record
Vehicle License Regulations
   
71.15   Display of license plates or validation stickers required
   
71.16   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.17   Operating without license plates
   
71.18   Operating with number of former owner
   
71.19   Resident operating with number issued by foreign state
   
71.20   Operating with expired plates
   
71.21   Noncommercial motor vehicle restricted use
   
71.22   Display of placards issued to manufacturers, dealers or distributors
   
71.23   Special license plates
   
71.24   Display of certificates of registration
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATOR'S LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 FALSE STATEMENTS; FRAUDULENT APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
(R.C. § 4507.36 (A))
   (B)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver's license
temporary instruction permit or any renewal or duplicate thereof, knowingly
conceal a material fact or present any physician's statement required under
R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or fictitious.
(R.C. § 4507.30(A)(5))
   (C)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4507.30(B), 4507.36(B))
Penalty, see § 71.99
Cross-reference:
   Falsification, see §
136.10
§ 71.02 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER; UNLICENSED OPERATION
ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to § 130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding § 130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. §
2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding
§ 130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)) ('73 Code, §§ 71.49 and 72.57)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
§ 71.03 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507, when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person, shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.14, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.04 IMPROPER DISPLAY, POSSESSION, OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) ('73 Code, § 72.01)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.05 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.06 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.063 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter
4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.14 , §
130.99  or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99 (E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99 (G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99 (F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99 (F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.061 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.14, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender’s license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02 (A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.062 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender's vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of this
section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive
days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest
with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization of the offender's
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall
not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring
in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed shall be
distributed in accordance with division R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section unless,
within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on
the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the
offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be
able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(2), or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal indigent
drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02 (A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver's license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
   ELECTRONIC MONITORING  has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   EQUIVALENT OFFENSE  means any of the following:
      (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or law
of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of this
section;
      (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
   JAIL  has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY JAIL TERM  means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of this
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
      (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term must
be served in a jail.
      (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.063 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.14, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.064 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.14, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.07 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.08 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person's act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of
this section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the offender
knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the motor vehicle
owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a category
described in division (A)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this section if any of
the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (3), or (5) of this section, the offender and the operator of
the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity
or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.14, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the registrar of motor vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the registrar,
the registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any and all vehicles included within the definition of MOTOR
VEHICLE in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and 4505.01.
   (B)   Annual license tax established. There is hereby levied an annual
license tax upon the operation of motor vehicles on public roads or highways
pursuant to R.C. § 4504.172 for the purposes of paying the costs and expenses
of enforcing and administering the tax provided for in this section; to provide
additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4504.06; and to
supplement revenue already available for such purposes.
   (C)   Rate of tax. The tax provided for in division (A) above shall be at
the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and every motor vehicle the district
of registration of which, as defined in R.C. § 4503.10, is in the city.
   (D)   Effective date of tax. The tax imposed by this section shall apply to
and be in effect for the registration year commencing January 1, 1988 and shall
continue in effect and application during each registration year thereafter.
   (E)   Payment of tax. The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
state registrar of motor vehicles or to a deputy registrar at the time
application for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.10.
   (F)   Use of funds. All moneys derived from the tax hereinbefore levied
shall be used by the city for the purposes specified in this section.
(Ord. 1392, passed 9-1-87)
SUSPENSION
§ 71.10 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is substantially
equivalent  to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person's driver's or commercial driver's license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender's driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or non resident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code shall not exceed the period of
suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the
provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this code is
substantially  equivalent .
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver's license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
Statutory reference:
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4507.40
   Ten-year mandatory suspension for person convicted of vehicular homicide
while eluding police officer, see R.C. § 4507.166
VEHICLE LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the front and rear of the motor vehicle a
license plate that bears the distinctive number and registration mark assigned
to the motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any
county identification sticker and any validation sticker issued under R.C. §§
4503.19 and 4503.191, except as follows:
         (a)   A manufacturer of motor vehicles or dealer therein, the holder
of an in transit permit, and the owner or operator of a motorcycle, motorized
bicycle or moped, motor-driven cycle or motor scooter, autocycle, cab-enclosed
motorcycle, manufactured home, mobile home, trailer, or semitrailer shall
display a license plate on the rear only.
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is issued two license plates shall display
the validation sticker only on the rear license plate, except that a commercial
tractor that does not receive an apportioned license plate under the
international registration plan shall display the validation sticker on the
front of the commercial tractor.
         (c)   An apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned license plate
under the international registration plan shall display the license plate only
on the front of a commercial tractor and on the rear of all other vehicles.
      (2)   All license plates shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs their visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary license
placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or
on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail to display the
windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of the motor vehicle. No
temporary license placard or windshield sticker shall be covered by any
material that obstructs its visibility.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer shall only issue a ticket, citation, or
summons, or cause the arrest or commence a prosecution, for the failure to
display a license plate in plain view on the front of a parked motor vehicle if
the officer first determines that another offense has occurred and either
places the operator or vehicle owner under arrest or issues a ticket, citation,
or summons to the operator or vehicle owner for the other offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A), (B))
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If a moving citation is issued to the offender, and if the offense
is not one in which a court appearance is mandatory, the payout amount shall be
$95. If a parking citation is issued to the offender, and if the offense is not
one in which a court appearance is mandatory, the payout amount shall be $77.
(Am. Ord. 05-34, passed 12-20-05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. If the vehicle
was parked at the time of the offense, the offense shall be a minor
misdemeanor. If the parking offense is not one in which a court appearance is
mandatory, the payout amount for the parking citation shall be $95.
('73Code, § 71.24) (Am. Ord. 05-34, passed 12-20-05)   
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.17 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
§ 71.18 OPERATING WITH NUMBER OF FORMER OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operation of a motor
vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to another, a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
§ 71.19 RESIDENT OPERATING WITH NUMBER ISSUED BY FOREIGN STATE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (B)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal operation by a
resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the distinctive number or
identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.20 OPERATING WITH EXPIRED PLATES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park on a street or highway any vehicle upon
which are displayed any license numbers for any period of time which has
expired or any license plates issued in another state for which the period of
reciprocal agreement with state of issue has expired.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon which are displayed
any license numbers for any period of time which has expired or any license
plates issued in another state for which the period of reciprocal agreement
with state of issue has expired.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A), shall be sentenced pursuant to §
76.99 as a parking violation. Whoever violates division (B) shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
70.99.
('73 Code, § 71.24) (Am. Ord. 22-02, passed 2-15-22)
§ 71.21 NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a non-commercial
motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 for other than the purposes set
forth in that section.
   (B)   NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle including a farm truck
as defined in R.C. § 4503.04, designed by the manufacturer to carry a load of
no more than three quarters of a ton and used exclusively for purposes other
than engaging in business for profit.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.22 DISPLAY OF PLACARDS ISSUED TO MANUFACTURERS, DEALERS OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   Any placards issued by the registrar of motor vehicles and bearing the
distinctive number assigned to a manufacturer, dealer, or distributor pursuant
to R.C. § 4503.27 may be displayed on any motor vehicle, other than commercial
cars, or on any motorized bicycle owner by the manufacturer, dealer, or
distributor, or lawfully in the possession or control of the manufacturer, his
agent, or employee, the dealer, his agent, or employee, the distributor, his
agent, or employee, and shall be displayed on no other motor vehicle or
motorized bicycle. Such placards may be displayed on commercial cars only when
such cars are in transit from a manufacturer to a dealer, from a distributor to
a dealer or distributor, or from a dealer to a purchaser, or when such cars are
being demonstrated for sale or lease, and shall not be displayed when such cars
are being used for delivery, hauling, transporting, or other commercial
purposes.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.23 SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall use the license placards provided for in R.C. § 4503.31
contrary to said section.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.24 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The operator of a commercial car as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, when
such car is required to be registered under the Revised Code, shall, when
operating such commercial car, trailer, or semi-trailer on the streets, roads,
or highways of this city, display inside or on the vehicle the certificate of
registration for such commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer provided for in
R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry such certificate upon the demand of any state
highway patrolman or other peace officer.
   (B)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
required to be registered under the Ohio Revised Code, shall permit the
inspection of the certificate of registration upon demand of the superintendent
or any member of the state highway patrol or other peace officer of this state.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.99(A))
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
72.01   Lanes of travel on roadways
   
72.02   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.03   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.04   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.05   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.06   Driving to left of center line
   
72.07   Prohibition against driving on left side of roadway
   
72.08   Hazardous zones
   
72.09   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.10   Divided roadways
   
72.11   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.12   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.13   Turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.14   Rules for starting and backing vehicles
   
72.15   Turn and stop signals
   
72.16   Hand and arm signals
   
72.17   Moving parked vehicle
   
72.18   Clearances, vertical, marking of
   
72.19   Driving through safety zone
   
72.20   Turns in the congested district
   
72.21   Unauthorized intersection bypass
   
72.22   (Reserved)
   
72.23   Vehicle trains, prohibitions
   
72.24   Weaving
   
72.25   Passengers on vehicles
Right-of-way
   
72.30   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.31   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.32   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.33   Stop at sidewalk area
   
72.34   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.35   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.36   Funeral procession has right-of-way
Through Highways
   
72.40   Through highways
Grade Crossings
   
72.45   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.46   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.47   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.48   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
Prohibited Acts
   
72.55   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.56   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.57   Driving on closed highway
   
72.58   Driving on sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.59   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.60   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.61   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.62   Placing injurious material on highway
   
72.625   Prohibition against depositing litter from motor vehicle
   
72.63   Gathering at scene of accident
   
72.64   Playing in street
   
72.65   Unnecessary noise in operation
   
72.66   Boarding or leaving vehicle in motion
   
72.67   Watching parked cars
   
72.68   Repair business from vehicles
   
72.69   Waste carts or vehicles in congested districts
   
72.70   Driving over new pavement
   
72.71   Advertising on vehicles
   
72.72   Street sales
   
72.73   Transporting child not in child restraint system prohibited
   
72.74   Occupant restraining device for school bus driver
   
72.741   Occupant restraining device for other vehicles
Violation Regulations
   
72.75   Citation tags
   
72.76   Registering citation tags
   
72.77   Owner's responsibility
   
72.78   Permitting or authorizing violation
   
72.79   (Reserved)
   
72.80   Sale of impounded vehicle
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 72.01 LANES OF TRAVEL ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one- way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) ('73 Code, §§ 72.38 and 72.39)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) ('73 Code, § 72.40)
§ 72.03 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) ('73 Code, § 72.44)
§ 72.04 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) ('73 Code, § 72.45)
§ 72.05 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) ('73 Code, § 72.46)
§ 72.06 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) ('73 Code, § 72.48)
§ 72.07 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator's view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent  municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.08 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances setout in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.09 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) ('73 Code, § 72.43)
§ 72.10 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.11 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) ('73 Code, § 72.15)
§ 72.12 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) ('73 Code, § 72.53)
§ 72.13 TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.14 RULES FOR STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) ('73 Code, §§ 72.18 and 72.20)
§ 72.15 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) ('73 Code, § 72.51)
§ 72.16 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) ('73 Code, § 72.52)
§ 72.17 MOVING PARKED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any vehicle left standing on a
highway by another person, unless it is with the consent or by the direction of
the owner or person in charge of the vehicle, except in or in connection with
the performance of their duties by members of the police force and of the fire
force and by employees of the division of highway maintenance and except for
the purpose of clearing the way for transit vehicles.
('73 Code, § 74.08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.18 CLEARANCES, VERTICAL, MARKING OF.
   Where the vertical clearance between an overhead structure and any point of
a roadway surface underneath the structure is 14 feet or less, the owner or
person in control of the overhead structure shall mark the clearance height to
the next lowest full 6-inch increment by a sign of the size and type prescribed
by the safety-service director.
('73 Code, § 71.10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.19 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) ('73 Code, § 72.41)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.20 TURNS IN THE CONGESTED DISTRICT.
   No person shall within a congested district turn any vehicle except to the
right or left at an intersection or a driveway.
('73 Code, § 72.54)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.21 UNAUTHORIZED INTERSECTION BYPASS.
   No person shall, when approaching an intersection, whether or not the
intersection is equipped with traffic-control devices or signals, drive or
operate a motor vehicle over, upon, across, or through an entrance, driveway,
or premises at the intersection and on to the intersecting street, unless the
entrance is clearly intended to be used by the general public for such purpose.
('73 Code, § 72.55)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.22 (RESERVED).
§ 72.23 VEHICLE TRAINS; PROHIBITIONS.
   For all vehicles and trains of vehicles, excluding fire force apparatus, it
shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To operate any vehicle or train of vehicles incapable of being turned
upon a radius of 40 feet or less;
   (B)   To operate any vehicle longer than 35 feet, except motor vehicles of a
passenger- bus type, whose length shall not exceed 48 feet;
   (C)   To operate any train of vehicles including more than two trailers, or
more than one semitrailer and one other trailer;
   (D)   To operate any train of vehicles longer than 60 feet, except as is
provided in division (F) of this section;
   (E)   To operate any train of vehicles consisting of a motor vehicle and a
semitrailer, which train is longer than 45 feet;
   (F)   For the purposes of the traffic code, the length of a train of
vehicles shall be taken as its overall length when coupled, and the length of a
vehicle or train of vehicles shall be taken as the overall length of the
vehicle or train of vehicles and of any projecting portion of its load.
('73 Code, § 71.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.24 WEAVING.
   It shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle upon any highway in a weaving or
zigzag course, unless such irregular course is made necessary by traffic
exigencies.
('73 Code, § 72.49)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.25 PASSENGERS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle, on any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion,
nor shall any operator knowingly permit the same.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty, or riding within a truck body in space designed for
merchandise.
('73 Code, § 71.45)
Penalty, see § 70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.30 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) ('73 Code, § 72.29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) ('73 Code, § 72.30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.32 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) ('73 Code, §§ 72.24 and 72.31)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.33 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431)
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
   INTERSECTION means:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
      (2)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
   ROADWAY means that portion of a private road or driveway improved, designed
or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a
private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))  
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.34 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.44) ('73 Code, § 72.32)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.35 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.36 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) ('73 Code, § 71.22)
Penalty, see § 70.99
THROUGH HIGHWAYS
§ 72.40 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
Penalty, see § 70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.45 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.46 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.47 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.48 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 72.55 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) ('73 Code, §§ 71.38, 71.46, and 71.48)
§ 72.56 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.57 DRIVING ON CLOSED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.58 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle regulations generally, see
Ch. 75
§ 72.59 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) ('73 Code, § 72.33)
§ 72.60 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A)) ('73 Code, §§ 72.12 and 72.13)
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver's motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.61 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department, that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) ('73 Code, § 72.19)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.62 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B)) ('73 Code, § 74.04)
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.74(C))
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.625 PROHIBITION AGAINST DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (B)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (C)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.63 GATHERING AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for drivers of vehicles to proceed to the scene
of an accident or other emergency so as to interfere with the progress of
vehicles of the police or other city department proceeding thereto; or to stop
or park vehicles in the vicinity thereof, or for pedestrians to gather or
assemble, so as to interfere with or impede police officers or other persons in
performing their duties or in rendering proper service at the scene of the
accident or other emergency or for the purpose of advertising or offering any
service for hire; or for any person thereat to solicit gainful employment of
any nature, or otherwise interfere with or impede traffic upon the streets or
in the proper and efficient rendition of service to persons or property
involved in, or affected by, such accident; provided that this section shall
not be construed as applying to ambulances, clergymen, physicians and their
vehicles, vehicles of a public utility company, or commercial vehicles that are
responding to an express request from one of the parties involved in the
accident or in response to a request from the police department.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $2 nor more than $100 and costs.
('73 Code, § 72.14)
§ 72.64 PLAYING IN STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, or riding in
or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device, to go upon any
roadway other than the roadway of a play street, except while crossing a
highway on a crosswalk.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $2 nor more than $100 and costs.
('73 Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.65 UNNECESSARY NOISE IN OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to create
unnecessary noise or sound in the operation of the vehicle so as to disturb the
peace and quiet of a neighborhood or other ordinary pursuit. Without limiting
the generality of the above, any noise produced by a cutout, bypass, gutted
muffler, straight pipe, pinched tail pipe, whistle, or the retarding or
advancing of the timing of the spark or the barking of tires shall be deemed
unnecessary noise.
('73 Code, § 72.56)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.66 BOARDING OR LEAVING VEHICLE IN MOTION.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
('73 Code, § 71.47)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.67 WATCHING PARKED CARS.
   No person shall solicit or accept employment as a guard, watcher, or
caretaker of any vehicle parked or about to be parked upon a highway.
('73 Code, § 74.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.68 REPAIR BUSINESS FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to use the
vehicle or permit the same to be used on the streets and public places of the
city for the manufacture or repair of shoes, clothing, furniture, metalware,
tools, or other articles of personal or household use.
('73 Code, § 74.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.69 WASTE CARTS OR VEHICLES IN CONGESTED DISTRICTS.
   No person shall operate or stand any scavenger waste carts or vehicles
within the congested district of the city between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 a.m. and between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
('73 Code, § 74.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.70 DRIVING OVER NEW PAVEMENT.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway or any part
thereof which has been closed and posted with appropriate signs, while in the
process of construction, reconstruction, or repair, by the authority having
jurisdiction to close the highway.
('73 Code, § 72.42)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.71 ADVERTISING ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate or park on any highway any vehicle for the primary
purpose of displaying advertising; however, in the case of public undertakings,
or undertakings sponsored by charitable, benevolent, or religious
organizations, the safety-service director shall be authorized to issue
temporary permits for the advertising display on vehicles where no charge is
made for the use of the vehicle. In granting any such permits, the safety-
service director may impose such limitations and restrictions as may be
conducive to the public welfare.
('73 Code, §§ 73.11 and 74.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.72 STREET SALES.
   (A)   No person other than a licensed hand peddler shall demonstrate, sell,
or offer for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise from any vehicle, or from
any box, basket, bag, or other container, upon the highways of the city, except
in authorized market stands not closer than 20 feet to intersections elsewhere
than at alleys. It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed
peddler selling from a vehicle, to stand or go upon a roadway for the purpose
of there demonstrating, selling, or offering for sale any goods, wares,
newspapers, or merchandise, or of distributing or handing out handbills, cards,
leaflets, samples of merchandise, or other similar items. It shall be unlawful
for any person, whether licensed as a peddler or not, to demonstrate, sell, or
offer for sale, upon any highway within a congested or closely built-up portion
of the city, except at authorized market stands, any goods, wares, or
merchandise, other than newspapers.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the distribution of
noncommercial handbills, cards, leaflets, or other literature on sidewalks.
('73 Code, § 74.23)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.73 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school, or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section that
nature, and no law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether a violation of that nature has been or is being
committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or in an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.74 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR SCHOOL BUS DRIVER.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator's seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.741 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or truck
that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining device for
the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United States
Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. 1392.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR, and COMMERCIAL CAR have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness, or
other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or passenger
in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle safety
standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
   PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
   TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to person
or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined in R.C.
§ 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does not
include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another agreement
between persons.
   VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set forth
above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator's seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance to be secured in a child restraint device. Division (B)(1) of this
section does not apply to a person who is an employee of the United States
Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service, during any period in
which the person is engaged in the operation of an automobile to deliver mail
or newspapers to addressees. Divisions (B)(1) and (3) of this section do not
apply to a person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to
practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to
practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the person has
a physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Ord. 00-49, passed 1-16-01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.73
   School bus operators, requirement of restraining devices, see §
72.74
VIOLATION REGULATIONS
§ 72.75 CITATION TAGS.
   The safety-service director is authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags for the purpose of giving notice to persons in
violation of any provision of the traffic code or of other laws or ordinances
affecting the use of highways. The notice may be given by delivering the tag to
the violator, or by affixing it to the vehicle by means of which the violation
occurred. Citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present the
tag at a designated office in the city hall at or before a date and hour
specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the
power of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
('73 Code, § 74.14)
§ 72.76 REGISTERING CITATION TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violating any of the
provisions of the ordinances relating to traffic to present a citation tag or
to file a written plea of guilty under a name other than his correct and true
name.
('73 Code, § 74.15)
§ 72.77 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The violation of any section or provision of the traffic code by means of a
motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that the violation was committed by
or with the authority or permission of the owner of the vehicle.
('73 Code, § 74.16)
§ 72.78 PERMITTING OR AUTHORIZING VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or in charge of any
vehicle to authorize or direct or permit another person to violate any section
or provision of the traffic code by means of the vehicle.
('73 Code, § 74.17)
§ 72.79 (RESERVED).
§ 72.80 SALE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any vehicle impounded by a police officer remains in the possession
of the city, unclaimed by any person having the right to the possession of the
vehicle, for a period of 60 days, the vehicle shall be sold under the direction
of the chief of police at a public auction to the highest bidder, after notice
of the auction has been given for not less than one week by one publication in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
('73 Code, § 74.13)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
Impaired Operation
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.011   Implied consent
   
73.02   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.03    Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.04   Defects or infirmities in driver
Reckless Operation
   
73.10   Operation in willful or wanton disregard of safety
   
73.11   Operation without reasonable control
   
73.111   Driving while texting
   
73.112   Use of devices by persons under 18 years of age
   
73.12   Operation of unsafe vehicles
   
73.13   Earphones or earplugs on operator prohibited
   
73.14   Restrictions on use of tinted glass and other vision obscuring
materials
Speed Regulations
   
73.15   Speed limits
   
73.16   Slow speed
   
73.17   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.18   Street racing prohibited on public highways
   
73.19   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.25    Failure to stop after accident
   
73.26    Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.27   Stopping after accident involving damage to realty
Miscellaneous
   
73.30   Officer may remove ignition key
   
73.31   Chauffeured limousines
IMPAIRED OPERATION
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.011, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h),(A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M)) (Ord. 03-17, passed 6-17-03)
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.011 and R.C. § 4511.194:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20, 30,
or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b), or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.19
Statutory reference:
   Trial judge to suspend or revoke driver’s license, see R.C. § 4507.16
§ 73.011 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 to 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The
officer shall give that advice in a written form that contains the information
described in division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the
person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the
person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or
more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the
witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must
submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the
arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and,
if the person does not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time
limit, the failure to submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to
the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person's whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
“You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
“If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC,
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
“(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
“If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.”
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a
prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a
chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the test or
tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a
metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is present
in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, regardless of
whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. § 4511.191(B)
or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the charge
resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’ arrest
or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any continuance
granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the issues specified
in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see R.C. § 4511.191(C) - (N)
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.02 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person's ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver's
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.03 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.04 DEFECTS OR INFIRMITIES IN DRIVER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is subject to epilepsy, vertigo, or
other infirmity of mind or body which would render him incapable of the safe
operation of a vehicle or trackless trolley, to operate any of the same. The
foregoing provision shall not bar a person whose eyesight is defective from
operating a vehicle, if his vision is brought to normal by a proper correction.
('73 Code, § 72.03)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.10 OPERATION IN WILLFUL OR WANTON DISREGARD OF SAFETY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
(R.C. § 4511.20(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.201(A)) (Ord. 1257, passed 3-22-83)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.20(B), 4511.201(B))   
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.11 OPERATION WITHOUT REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)    No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.111 DRIVING WHILE TEXTING.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle, trackless trolley, or streetcar
on any street, highway, or property open to the public for vehicular traffic
while using a handheld electronic wireless communications device to write,
send, or read a text-based communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigational purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually sending, or reading communication
referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic mail.
(Ord. 13-7, passed 6-4-13)
§ 73.112 USE OF DEVICES BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is outside a lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or word.
(Ord. 13-7, passed 6-4-13)
§ 73.12 OPERATION OF UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Random motor vehicle inspection, OAC 4501: 2-1
§ 73.13 EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS ON OPERATOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES means any
headset, radio, tape player, or similar device that provides the listener with
radio programs, music, or other recorded information through a device attached
to the head and that covers all or a portion of both ears. EARPHONES does not
include speakers or other listening devices that are built into protective
headgear.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaging in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.14 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF TINTED GLASS AND OTHER VISION OBSCURING
MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, leased or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state with any sun
screening material, or other product or material which has the effect of making
the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the windows' color,
increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, except as herein
specified:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle with a strip of sun screening applied along the
top of the windshield so long as such material, when used in conjunction with
the windshield, is transparent and is in compliance with "Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 205," or other applicable federal standards, and does
not extend downward beyond the AS-1 line or five inches from the top of the
windshield, whichever is closer to the top.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle with sun screening material applied to the side
windows near the driver and passenger in front of the car and/or the rear
windows so long as such material, when used in conjunction with the safety
glazing materials of such windows, has a light transmittance of not less than
50% plus or minus 3% and is not red or yellow in color.
   (B)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the requirements of this section or of any
rule adopted under this section.
   (C)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as define in
the Ohio Revised Code, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of this section or of any rule adopted under this section.
   (D)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear sections.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or glazing
of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or
permitted by “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205.”
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Light transmission specifications for material used in motor vehicle windows
and windshields, exemptions, see OAC Ch 4501-41
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.15 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school's report for the parents of the school's pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared pursuant to this section by the
Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to exceed any
of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No person shall be
convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct,
although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged
in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a motor
vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a
charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this
section is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (J)(1)(b), (1)(c),
(2), and (3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (J)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender
alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.16 SLOW SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) ('73 Code, § 72.10)
§ 73.17 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency
vehicles or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls
and are equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or
oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound
audible signals by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not
relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the street or
highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) ('73 Code, § 72.11)
§ 73.18 STREET RACING PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) ('73 Code, § 72.21)
§ 73.19 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.25 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) ('73 Code, § 74.07)
§ 73.26 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) ('73 Code, § 74.07)
§ 73.27 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) ('73 Code, § 74.07)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 73.30 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 73.31 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01(GG) and
shall not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance
with any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other
similar vehicles for hire.
   (B)   No person shall advertise or hold himself out as doing business as a
limousine service or livery service or other similar designation unless each
vehicle used by him to provide the service registered in accordance with R.C. §
4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Lights
   
74.01   Lighted lights required
   
74.02   Headlights required
   
74.03   Two headlights displayed
   
74.04   Headlights; intensity
   
74.05   Lights of less intensity
   
74.06   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.07   Taillights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.08   Red reflectors required
   
74.09   Stoplight regulations
   
74.10   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.11   Cowl, fender, and backup lights
   
74.12   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.13   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.14   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.15   Red light or flag required on load projecting to rear
   
74.16   Lights on slow-moving vehicles; emblem
   
74.17   Safety lights on commercial vehicles
   
74.18   Lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.19   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.20   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
Brakes
   
74.25   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.26   Brake fluid
   
74.27   Minimum standards for brakes and components
Signals
   
74.30   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.31   Directional signals
   
74.32   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.33   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
Glass
   
74.35   Windshields and wipers
   
74.36   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.37   Rearview mirrors
Other Equipment
   
74.40   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.41   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.42   Tires
   
74.43   Solid tire requirements
   
74.44   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required
   
74.45   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.46   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.47   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.48   Air cleaner
   
74.49   Television sets prohibited in view of driver
   
74.50   Shortwave radio
   
74.51   Studded tires; prohibitions
   
74.52   Highway use tax permit required
   
74.53   Air bags
Loads
   
74.55   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.56   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.57   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.58    Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.59   Weight on tires
   
74.60   Commercial and heavy vehicles
   
74.61   Inspection as to unlawful load
   
74.62   Vehicles with pneumatic tires; load limits
   
74.63   Exceeding motor vehicles gross vehicle weight
LIGHTS
§ 74.01 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) ('73 Code, § 71.01)
§ 74.02 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) ('73Code, § 71.01)
§ 74.03 TWO HEADLIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) ('73 Code, § 71.01)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS; INTENSITY.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) ('73 Code, § 71.07)
§ 74.05 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.06 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) ('73 Code, § 71.08)
§ 74.07 TAILLIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) ('73 Code, § 71.01)
§ 74.08 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) ('73 Code, § 71.03)
§ 74.09 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.10 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10) ('73 Code, § 71.05)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 COWL, FENDER, AND BACKUP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) ('73 Code, § 71.06)
§ 74.12 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) ('73 Code, § 71.06)
§ 74.13 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles, and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, but
shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other color,
nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.14 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) ('73 Code, § 71.04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.15 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED ON LOAD PROJECTING TO REAR.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) ('73 Code, § 71.32)
§ 74.16 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 miles
per hour, and shall display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than
500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this section. As used in
this division, MACHINERY does not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by
an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow-moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a
slow-moving vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a
speed identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005,
Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling, or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11) ('73 Code, § 71.02)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR0, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.17 SAFETY LIGHTS ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) ('73 Code, § 71.01)
§ 74.18 LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.19 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.20 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
BRAKES
§ 74.25 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20) ('73 Code, § 71.15)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.27 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. 571.105, as amended, and 49
C.F.R. 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
SIGNALS
§ 74.30 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) ('73 Code, § 71.17)
§ 74.31 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially  equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261) ('73 Code, § 71.30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.32 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.33 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
GLASS
§ 74.35 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) ('73 Code, §§ 71.26, 71.27, and 71.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer's tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver's seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J)) ('73 Code, § 71.19)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K)) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations, see OAC Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.37 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) ('73 Code, § 71.19)
OTHER EQUIPMENT
§ 74.40 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING means the manufacturer's gross vehicle weight
rating established for that vehicle.
   MANUFACTURER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
   PASSENGER CAR means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
   TRUCK means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed
and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000
pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see OAC Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.41 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person's possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) ('73 Code, §§ 71.16 and 71.20)
§ 74.42 TIRES.
   No person shall operate any vehicle unless it has tires of rubber or of some
equally resilient materials; except in the following cases:
   (A)   Vehicles drawn by animal power.
   (B)   Road rollers, concrete mixers, platform trucks, or traction engines
being transported beyond the limits of the city, and other similar devices
which may have smooth metallic tires, without cleats, lugs, spikes,
projections, or sharp or uneven parts likely to cause damage to the surface of
the roadway.
('73 Code, § 71.13)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.43 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25) ('73 Code, § 71.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.44 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent  municipal ordinance, the component parts of a SEAT SAFETY BELT
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
§ 74.45 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29) ('73 Code, § 71.37)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.46 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.47 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality.
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation.
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§
306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   28 1/2 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (4), and in
division (E) below.
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13 1/2 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) to (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.48 AIR CLEANER.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle with motive power of 4 cylinders
or more on the streets or other public property of the city unless the
carburetor of the vehicle has attached to it an air breather or air cleaner
having a minimum diameter of 6 inches.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $100 and costs.
('73 Code, § 71.3l) (Am. Ord. 734, passed 7-6-67)
§ 74.49 TELEVISION SETS PROHIBITED IN VIEW OF DRIVER.
   No person shall operate or have upon the highway any motor vehicle equipped
or provided with a television set so placed that it can be operated, used, or
observed by the driver of the motor vehicle.
('73 Code, § 71.29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.50 SHORTWAVE RADIO.
   No person shall have or operate upon any highway any vehicle not in the
service of a county sheriff or other public authority engaged in police service
or in the apprehension of criminals, which is equipped with or in or upon which
there is carried any radio receiving set capable while affixed to or carried on
the vehicle of receiving radio messages upon a wavelength less than 200 meters,
except by permit of the safety-service director and subject to such conditions
as he shall in any case stipulate.
('73 Code, § 71.21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.51 STUDDED TIRES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed for
use on a vehicle, and equipped with metal studs or studs or wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire; and
MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET OR HIGHWAY, PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, and SCHOOL BUS have
the same meaning as given those terms in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, other than a public safety
vehicle or school bus, that is equipped with studded tires on any street or
highway in this state, except during the period extending from the first day of
November of each year through April 15 of the succeeding year.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or in
the immediate vicinity thereof.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.52 HIGHWAY USE TAX PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful, on and after September 30, 1955 for any person to
operate a commercial car with three or more axles, a commercial car as part of
a commercial tandem, or a commercial tractor as part of a commercial tractor
combination or commercial tandem on a public highway without a valid highway
use permit for such commercial car or commercial tractor. The judge or
magistrate of any court finding any person guilty of unlawfully operating a
commercial car or commercial tractor as provided for in this section shall
immediately notify the tax commissioner of such violation and shall transmit to
the commissioner the name and the permanent address of the owner of the
commercial car or commercial tractor operated in violation of this section, the
registration number, the state of registration, and the certificate of title
number of the commercial car or commercial tractor.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.53 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.55 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the special permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see OAC Chapter
5501:2-1
§ 74.56 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle's left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30) ('73 Code, § 71.33)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.57 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31) ('73 Code, §§ 71.34, 71.35, and 71.36)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.58 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32) ('73 Code, § 72.23)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.59 WEIGHT ON TIRES.
   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
   (A)   (1)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width, a
load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all wheels;
      (2)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
   (B)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
      Tire Width         Load Limit
      (in inches)         (in pounds)
         3         450
         3½         450
         4         500
         5         600
         6 and over      650
   (C)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of solid
tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of all
such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event shall
that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than two-
thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
   (D)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar substance,
the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of all such
tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not bearing a
load.
   (E)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this section for solid tires, for each inch
in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03) ('73 Code, § 71.39)
§ 74.60 COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   All trucks passing through the city, not making pick-ups, deliveries
or service calls on side streets, shall use only Harrison Avenue, North Bend
Road, Glenmore Avenue south of Harrison Avenue, Bridgetown Road and Westwood
Northern Boulevard for purposes of entering and leaving the city. The side
streets shall not be used except for pick-up, delivery and service call
purposes, or when special permit is authorized and given by the Safety-Service
Director.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any commercial four axle truck or
other commercial vehicle or vehicle train having four or more axles on the
following streets in the city: Harrison Avenue, North Bend Road, Glenmore
Avenue south of Harrison, Bridgetown Road and Westwood Northern Boulevard for
the purpose of passing through the city, not making pick-ups, deliveries or
service calls within the city.
   (C)   Any street or thoroughfare not specifically listed in division (B) of
this section shall not be traversed by commercial trucks or commercial vehicles
in excess of 20,000 pounds gross vehicle weight. (Gross vehicle weight includes
total weight of both vehicle and load.)
   (D)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section shall not preclude pick-
ups, deliveries and service calls including multiple pick-ups, deliveries and
service calls within the city. Nor shall this section preclude pick-ups,
deliveries and service calls including multiple pick-ups, deliveries and
service calls within the immediate proximity of the city, providing that the
vehicle used in performing said service shall be operated over the most direct
and reasonable route.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section, it
shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle of any type on Bruestle Avenue and
Meyerfeld from Wardall to the Post Office in excess of five tons except when
special permit is given by the Safety-Service Director.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to commercial buses and school buses
traveling on a fixed or regular route and shall not apply to municipal and
utility vehicles.
   (G)   As utilized in this section, SERVICE CALL shall mean the performance
of work at a site, and the movement to or from that site by vehicles normally
used in the performance of the work, or in transporting materials, equipment,
tools, and personnel to and from the site, and shall include the dispatch from
and the return of such a vehicle to the location at which is it stored,
serviced or awaits assignment.
   (H)   The Safety-Service Director is hereby directed to place signs
adequately indicating the restrictions contained in this section.
   (I)   This section shall apply to both the owner and operator of any
commercial vehicle. Any owner or operator of any vehicle violating this section
shall be fined upon conviction of not more than $100 plus court costs for a
first offense. For any subsequent offense, the owner or operator of any vehicle
which violates this section shall be fined upon conviction of not more than
$1,000 plus court costs.
   (J)   Whenever a driver has been arrested or cited for a violation of any
provision of this section, the officer making such arrest shall immediately
notify, in writing, the person, firm, association, or corporation in whose name
the vehicle is registered of the fact of such arrest or citation. Such
notification shall describe the vehicle involved, the name of the driver or
operator thereof, and the time, place, and nature of the offense committed. The
police department shall keep a separate file with respect to all citations and
warning citations issued under this section.
(Ord. 1502, passed 3-5-91)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.61 INSPECTION AS TO UNLAWFUL LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful is authorized to require the driver to stop and
submit to a weighing of the same either by means of portable or stationary
scales, and may require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest public
scales.
   (B)   Whenever the officer upon weighing a vehicle and load, as above
provided, determines that the weight is unlawful, the officer may require the
driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such
portion of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the gross weight
of the vehicle to such limit as permitted under the traffic code.
('73 Code, § 71.41)
§ 74.62 VEHICLES WITH PNEUMATIC TIRES; LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load, object
or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets, bridges
or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic tire,
measured as prescribed by R.C. § 5577.03.
   (B)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the said surface by
vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the following wright
limitations:
      (1)   On any one axle, 20,000;
      (2)   On any tandem axle, 34,000;
      (3)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (D) of this
section.
   (C)   The maximum overall gross weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the
road surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
   (D)   For purposes of division (B)(3) of this section, the maximum gross
weight of any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined by application
of the following formula:
   W = 500(LN/N-1) + 12N + 36)
   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group of two or
more consecutive axles to the nearest 500, L equals the distance in feet
between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles, and N equals
the number of axles in the group under consideration. However, two consecutive
sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the
overall distance between the first and last axles of such consecutive sets of
tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, when a vehicle is towing
another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length such as
will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles to a
distance not in excess of 12 feet and six inches.
   (F)   As used in this section, TANDEM AXLE means two consecutive axles whose
centers may be included between parallel transverse vertical planes spaced more
than 40 inches but not more than 96 inches apart, extending across the full
width of the vehicle.
   (G)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of the above divisions shall be
fined $100 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for
overloads in excess of 2,000 pounds but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $150, and in addition thereto one dollar per 100 pounds
of overload; for over loads in excess of 5,000 pounds, but not in excess of
10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $200 and in addition thereto two
dollars per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. For all overloads in excess of 10,000 pounds such person shall be fined
$250, and in addition thereto three dollars per 100 pounds of overload, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Whoever violates the weight
provisions of vehicle and load relating to gross load limits shall be fined not
less than $200. No penalty prescribed in this division shall be imposed on any
vehicle combination if the overload does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the
immediately preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the
vehicle combination, is under loaded by the same or a greater amount. For
purposes of this division, two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart,
shall be considered as one axle.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.63 EXCEEDING MOTOR VEHICLES GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   The maximum weight of a motor vehicle including load shall not exceed the
maximum gross vehicle weight as rated by the manufacturer. The manufacturers
gross vehicle weight listed on the vehicle identification plate shall be
acceptable as the manufacturers statement as to the vehicles gross vehicle
weight rating.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
75.01   Bicycles
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03    Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Bicycles on roadway; riding abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.08   Bicycles, operation by minors
   
75.09   Skateboards; regulations
§ 75.01 BICYCLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) ('73 Code, § 71.44)   
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person's head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver's or commercial driver's license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator's
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator's ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Revocation of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other
person upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat
thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly
attached and regular seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or
article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. No motorcycle shall
be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher than the shoulders of
the operator when the operator is seated in the operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Protective equipment for motorcycles, see OAC Ch. 4501-17
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) ('73 Code, § 72.16)
§ 75.06 BICYCLES ON ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) ('73 Code, § 71.18)
§ 75.08 BICYCLES, OPERATION BY MINORS.
   (A)   Minors 14 years of age or less may be permitted to ride bicycles on
sidewalks where the buildings do not abut the paved portion of the sidewalk;
provided that, when approaching a pedestrian or other person lawfully using the
sidewalk, any such minor riding on the sidewalk shall dismount before his
bicycle is within 25 feet of the pedestrian and shall continue dismounted until
he shall have passed the pedestrian or other person.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $2 nor more than $100 and costs.
('73 Code, § 72.06)
§ 75.09 SKATEBOARDS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall ride or allow another person to ride any skateboard on
any street or sidewalk within the business district of the city, municipal
parking lots, the Fieldhouse parking lot, the Fieldhouse tennis courts or the
maintenance access road at the Fieldhouse.
   (B)   Persons may ride skateboards in residential areas provided that they
dismount from the skateboard when they are within 20 feet of pedestrian
traffic.
   (C)   No person shall ride or allow another person to ride a skateboard on
any public street or highway with the city limits.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, BUSINESS DISTRICT means: Harrison
Avenue between the eastern city boundary and western city boundary; Bridgetown
Road, west of Harrison Avenue extending to the western city boundary; Glenmore
Avenue extending to the southern city boundary to Woodbine Avenue to the north;
and Northbend Road from Harrison Avenue to the northern city boundary.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the term SKATEBOARD means without
limitation, any vehicle or device consisting basically of a board or platform
mounted on wheels or rollers, whether powered by gravity, muscle power or
mechanical or motorized means which is not equipped with a positive, mechanical
means of steering such vehicle or device. However, the term SKATEBOARD shall
not include motorized or other wheelchairs.
   (F)   As used in this section the term PERSON shall mean a natural person.
   (G)   Anyone violating this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
In cases of juveniles, the minor shall be taken to the police department and
released to the custody of his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 94-24, passed 9-20-94)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for handicapped
   
76.06   Certain vehicles in excess of one-ton capacity prohibited from parking
in residential districts
Safety-Service Director
   
76.10   Parking and stopping restrictions, authorization
   
76.11   Bus stops, etc., establishing
   
76.12   Parking meters, locations
   
76.13   Metered spaces
Stopping or Parking Prohibited
   
76.15   Bus stops, etc., parking in
   
76.16   Buses and taxicabs parking on street
   
76.17   Narrow streets
   
76.18   Parking vehicle for sale
   
76.19   (Reserved)
   
76.20   Repaired, serviced, or stored vehicles, parking on street
   
76.21   Parking near driveways
   
76.22   Parking prohibitions on private property
   
76.23   Parking in yard prohibited
Time Limits on Parking
   
76.25   One-hour limit
   
76.26   Unreasonable time
   
76.27   Three-minute limit
   
76.28   Parking exceptions, funeral cars
Municipal Parking Lots
   
76.35   Municipal parking lots; regulations
Parking Meters
   
76.40   Types of parking meters; construction
   
76.41   Metered parking
   
76.42   Metered parking violations
   
76.43   Repeat metering prohibited
   
76.44   Slugs and coin substitutes
   
76.45   Defacing parking meters
Enforcement
   
76.50   Authority to impound vehicles
   
76.51   Reclaiming impounded vehicles
   
76.52   Parking schedule
 
   
76.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) ('73 Code, §§ 71.52 and 73.09) (Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance, such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved
or improved or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
      (17)   On bicycle path;
      (18)   On bridle path.
   (B)   A person shall be permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand
or park on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine
not larger than 150 cubic centimeters, or a bicycle, provided that the motor-
driven cycle, motor scooter, or bicycle does not impede the normal flow of
pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize any person to operate a
vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) ('73 Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98) Penalty, see
§
76.99
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
   HANDICAPPED PERSON means any person who has lost the use of one or both legs
or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to be
unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility
is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other handicapping
condition.
   PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. §§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 CERTAIN VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF ONE-TON CAPACITY PROHIBITED FROM PARKING
IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No person shall park or store a bus, commercial tractor, agricultural
tractor, semitrailer, load packer, pole trailer, moving van, or any vehicle
licensed as a truck in excess of one-ton capacity on public or private property
in a residential district in the city.
   (B)   As used in this section, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT or SINGLE-FAMILY
DISTRICT means any district in the city defined as residential or single-family
under
Chapter 150, Zoning Code 1973.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to vehicles licensed as trucks up to one-
ton capacity and not used for commercial purposes, nor to commercial vehicles
on service calls or making deliveries.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1256, passed 4-21-83; Am. Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98)
Penalty, see § 76.99
SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR
§ 76.10 PARKING AND STOPPING RESTRICTIONS, AUTHORIZATION.
   The safety-service director is authorized and required to ascertain upon
what highways and parts of highways and all other municipal property the
accommodation of traffic or the safety of the public require the restriction as
to time, or the prohibition of the parking or stopping of vehicles. He shall
erect and maintain appropriate traffic signs plainly indicating the purpose of
the restrictions. It shall be unlawful to park or stop a vehicle in violation
of a traffic sign so erected.
('73 Code, § 73.01)
§ 76.11 BUS STOPS, ETC., ESTABLISHING.
   The safety-service director is authorized and required to establish bus
stops and taxi stands in such places as he shall deem to be for the benefit and
convenience of the public. Every bus stop or taxi stand shall be designated by
an appropriate sign or signs; if designated by a single sign, a bus stop shall
include the 50 feet prior to the posted sign.
('73 Code, § 73.02) (Ord. 1546, passed 5-5-92)
§ 76.12 PARKING METERS, LOCATIONS.
   The safety-service director shall be authorized to provide for the
installation, regulation, maintenance, control, operation, and use of parking
meters on any street or part of a street, and on all other municipally owned
property, where parking is permitted for limited periods only, and parking
spaces are ordinarily occupied to capacity, and where, further, in his opinion,
the use of the parking meters would tend to reduce over-parking in violation of
the ordinances. He shall further be authorized to maintain the parking meters
in good workable condition.
('73 Code, § 73.03)
§ 76.13 METERED SPACES.
   The safety-service director shall cause lines or marks to be placed on the
curb or on the street about or alongside of each parking meter to designate the
parking space for which the meter is to be used. Each vehicle parking alongside
of or next to any parking meter shall park within the lines or markings so
established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
mark, or to park the vehicle in such way that the same shall not be within the
area so designated by the lines or markings, unless the vehicle be too large to
be confined in one space.
('73 Code, § 73.04)
STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED
§ 76.15 BUS STOPS, ETC., PARKING IN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than a bus to
stand or park the vehicle in an officially designated bus stop, or for the
operator of any vehicle other than a taxicab to stand or park the vehicle in an
officially designated taxicab stand.
('73 Code, § 73.06)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.16 BUSES AND TAXICABS PARKING ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus or taxicab to park the
vehicle upon any highway in any business district at any place other than at a
bus stop or taxicab stand respectively.
('73 Code, § 73.07)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.17 NARROW STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park the vehicle upon
any highway in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals or a police officer.
('73 Code, § 73.08)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.18 PARKING VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   No person shall park upon a highway or unpaved portion of a yard of a
property used for residential purposes any vehicle displayed for sale.
('73 Code, § 73.10) (Ord. 98-2, passed 3-3-98)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.19 (RESERVED).
§ 76.20 REPAIRED, SERVICED, OR STORED VEHICLES, PARKING ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or agent thereof, of a garage,
service station, parking lot, or other off-street parking or service facility
to place or allow to be placed upon any highway any vehicle left in his custody
for repair, servicing, or storage.
('73 Code, § 73.13)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.21 PARKING NEAR DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be parked on any street in the city closer than
two feet from the point where the driveway approach intersects the curb of the
street.
   (B)   The safety-service director is authorized and empowered to require
parking of motor vehicles more than two feet from the point where the driveway
approach intersects the curb of the street, if he deems it necessary for
traffic safety. However, in such instances, the street curb shall be painted so
as to clearly indicate the distance that motor vehicles may be parked near the
driveway approach.
   (C)   Any violation of this section may cause the motor vehicle to be towed
away by the Cheviot Police Department. Applicable provisions of the code
pertaining to towing and storage of motor vehicles shall govern.
(Ord. 1044, passed 1-4-77; Am. Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.22 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   If an owner of private property posts on the property, in a conspicuous
manner, a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
   (A)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner's consent;
   (B)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
(Ord. 1605, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.23 PARKING IN YARD PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No automobile, motorcycle, camper, other motor vehicle, or boat shall
be parked or remain on any unpaved portion of the front yard or any unpaved
portion of a yard visible from the street in sections of the city zoned
Residential, R-1, Multiple, or Office and Professional.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to division (A), and division (A)
shall not apply to:
      (1)   Parking at times of emergency due to acts of nature;
      (2)   Parking at times when a resident is moving in or out of the
premises;
      (3)   Vehicles present for the purpose of making repairs to the property
or landscape;
      (4)   Overflow parking of invited guests of a resident during gatherings.
Such guests may park for any period of time within a 24-hour period, not to
exceed once per calendar month;
      (5)   Parking from Thursday through Sunday during the Harvest Home Parade
and Harvest Home Fair.
   (C)   The safety-service director may, upon request, issue a special permit
for parking upon a lawn.
(Ord. 00-10, passed 5-2-00 ; Am. Ord. 07-27, passed 11-20-07 )
Penalty, see § 76.99
TIME LIMITS ON PARKING
§ 76.25 ONE-HOUR LIMIT.
   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except upon Sundays and
holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any business zone, unless
otherwise provided and posted, and for more than one hour as directed by city
council.
('73 Code, § 73.14)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.26 UNREASONABLE TIME.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any highway, street, alley way, or
municipal parking lot within the city limits longer than 48 hours at any time
from Monday through Friday.
('73 Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 94-45, passed 11-15-94; Am. Ord. 99-09, passed - -99)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.27 THREE-MINUTE LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus, other than repair vehicles
making necessary repairs, to permit or cause the bus to remain standing upon a
highway more than three minutes, except during the scheduled layover, and
except during periods when some emergency condition prevents him from
proceeding.
('73 Code, § 73.16)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.28 PARKING EXCEPTIONS, FUNERAL CARS.
   The provisions of any of the sections, restricting the time during which
parking is prohibited, shall not apply to funeral cars marked as authorized by
§
72.36.
('73 Code, § 73.17)
MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS
§ 76.35 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only passenger motor vehicles and other motor vehicles having a gross
weight of not more than 20,000 pounds shall be permitted to park in the
municipal parking lots. These motor vehicles may not be longer in length than
the surface lines within which the vehicles must be parked, and shall be parked
within the boundaries of the marked parking lanes.
   (B)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle having motor power
designed and used for carrying merchandise or freight.
      (2)   OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes commercial motor vehicles having a
gross weight of not more than 20,000 pounds.
      (3)   PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed and used for
carrying not more than 9 persons.
   (C)   Motor vehicles may not be parked in such a way as to extend out into
the area used for entering or exiting from parking lanes, or straddle or cross
the boundary lines of parking lanes.
   (D)   Motor vehicles shall enter and leave the municipal parking lots only
over or through areas specifically designated for entering and leaving.
   (E)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. parking at Municipal Lot
No. 2 on Northbend Road shall be limited to 4 hours. Parking on all other
municipal lots shall be limited to 6 hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m.
   (F)   No vending, selling, soliciting, or promotion or advertising of any
products or services of any kind whatsoever, shall be permitted in the
municipal parking lots, except:
      (1)   Food trucks operating with a valid permit issued by the city;
      (2)   Vendors operating during festivals or special events approved by
the city;
      (3)   Commercial vehicles with signage permanently affixed;
      (4)   Political campaign signs on vehicles; and
      (5)   The distribution of political literature on a day which an election
is being conducted.
   (G)   Any police officer of the city may impound any such motor vehicle in
the municipal parking lots found in violation of §
76.50.
   (H)   Municipal parking lots shall be governed by applicable provisions of
this title except as otherwise provided herein and by other applicable
provisions of the code of ordinances.
('73 Code, § 73.19) (Am. Ord. 1016, passed 2-10-76; Am. Ord. 1278, passed 9-13-
83; Am. Ord. 15-19, passed 7-7-15)   
Penalty, see § 76.99
PARKING METERS
§ 76.40 TYPES OF PARKING METERS; CONSTRUCTION.
   Parking meters shall be of either the penny, nickel, dime, quarter, or
combination type and shall be so designed and constructed as to display a
signal showing lawful parking following the deposit therein of a prescribed
coin of the United States of America during the period of time for parking
provided for the denomination of the coin so deposited, which in no event shall
exceed the parking limits now or hereafter provided for the part of the street
upon which the meter is placed. Each meter shall bear a sign or legend setting
forth the denomination or denominations of coins which can be so deposited
therein, and the parking time secured thereby, which sign or legend may be in
lieu of any other sign pertaining to the parking of vehicles in the adjacent
parts of the street. Each meter shall also be designed and constructed so that
upon the expiration of the parking time provided for the denomination of coin
deposited it will indicate by automatic operation of a visual signal that the
lawful parking period has expired.
('73 Code, § 73.20)
§ 76.41 METERED PARKING.
   (A)   Whenever, during hours of limited parking, any vehicle shall be parked
in any designated space at which there is located a parking meter, the owner,
operator, manager, or driver of the vehicle shall, upon entering the vehicle in
the parking space, immediately deposit a coin of the United States of America
in the parking meter; however, the owner, operator, manager, or driver may use
the unexpired time remaining on the meter from its previous use without
depositing a coin therein.
   (B)   When a vehicle is too large to be confined in a single space, only the
meter nearest the hood or front end of the vehicle need be operated. Thereupon
the parking space may be used by the vehicle during the parking period provided
for the part of the street in which the parking space is located.
   (C)   If a vehicle shall remain parked in any parking space beyond the
parking limit fixed for the parking space, and the parking meter shall display
a signal indicating illegal parking, then and in that event, the vehicle shall
be considered as parked overtime.
('73 Code, § 73.21)
§ 76.42 METERED PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, during hours of limited parking, to permit a
vehicle to remain parked in a designated parking space while the parking meter
for the space indicates the car is illegally parked, whether the indication is
the result of the failure to deposit a coin or operate the lever or other
actuating device of the meter, or the result of the automatic operation of the
meter following the expiration of the authorized parking time subsequently to
the depositing of a coin herein at the time the vehicle was parked.
   (B)   A police officer, a parking enforcement officer, or anyone else
authorized by the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, upon finding a violation of this
section, shall issue a citation tag enabling the violator to pay a fine of $25,
provided it is paid at the city hall within 168 hours after receipt of notice.
The time noted by the officer shall be prima facie evidence of the time.
Tickets shall be paid at City Hall between 8.00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday, excluding holidays.
('73 Code, § 73.22) (Ord. 1586, passed 6-1-93; Am. Ord. 98-26, passed 6-16-98;
Am. Ord. 05-32, passed 12-6-05; Am. Ord. 16-3, passed 2-2-16; Am. Ord. 22-02,
passed 2-15-22)   
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.43 REPEAT METERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in a parking meter a coin
for the purpose of obtaining an extension of indicated parking time beyond the
limit of time prescribed for parking a vehicle in the designated space
alongside of or next to the parking meter.
('73 Code, § 73.23)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.44 SLUGS AND COIN SUBSTITUTES.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter, any
slug, device, or other substitute for a coin of the United States of America.
('73 Code, § 73.24)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.45 DEFACING PARKING METERS.
   No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, open, break, or destroy any
parking meter or otherwise impair its usefulness.
('73 Code, § 73.25)
Penalty, see § 76.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 76.50 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any police officer of the city may impound any: stolen, abandoned, or
unroadworthy vehicle; any vehicle which has been parked or driven on any city
property in violation of §§
71.15 through
71.20; any other vehicle parked at a place where parking is prohibited or which
has been parked for more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for
parking in any place, or which is involved in an accident; or which is driven
by a person under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or opiates; or which is in
the possession of any person who has been physically arrested; or which has
been involved in 2 or more violations of traffic ordinances for which citation
tags have been issued and not presented as required by Cheviot ordinance.
   (B)   The authority to impound any vehicle described herein shall also apply
and pertain to off-street parking areas, owned by the city, or maintained,
operated, or supervised by the city, by agreement, or where authority to
enforce parking restrictions has been given to, and accepted by the city.
However, adequate signs shall be erected in such off-street parking areas,
stating that, for violation of parking regulations thereon, vehicles may be
towed away and impounded by the city, and any person desiring to redeem the
vehicle shall be subject to towing and other charges as provided herein.
('73 Code, § 73.26; Am. Ord. 1163, passed 4-22-80)
§ 76.51 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A) Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall first pay to
the city a basic charge of $20 plus $8 per day for each day the vehicle is
stored outside and $10 per day for each day the vehicle is stored inside. Said
person may also be assessed a cost for towing services other than those
described above and, in addition thereto, shall pay for any services performed
by the city in order to properly maintain the impounded vehicle. Any person
redeeming the impounded vehicle more than 14 days after the vehicle has been
impounded shall pay $16 per day for outside storage and $20 per day for inside
storage for every day beyond 14 days that the city stores the impounded
vehicle.
   (B)   If the impounded vehicle is sold in accordance with the provisions of
Cheviot ordinances or the Statutes of Ohio, the above charges shall be deducted
from the proceeds of the sale before the proceeds are paid to the general fund.
   (C)   If the owner of an impounded vehicle filed with the safety-service
director of the city a statement under oath, that the vehicle had been stolen
and abandoned by the thief, or that the vehicle had been disabled, the mayor,
with the recommendation of the safety-service director, shall have the power to
emit all or any part of the storage or impounded charge.
('73 Code, § 73.27) (Ord. 1385, passed 5-19-87; Am. Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98;
Am. Ord. 98-45, passed 11-17-98)
§ 76.52 PARKING SCHEDULE.
Street Limitation
Street          Limitation
Harrison Avenue No parking at any time on the south side of Harrison Avenue
                between North Bend Road and Cheviot Avenue.
               No parking at any time on the north side of Harrison Avenue
                between North Bend Road and a point opposite Cheviot Avenue.
               Present no parking zone extending 25 feet to the east on the
                south side of Harrison Avenue east to Glenmore Avenue.
                From North Bend Road to the east corporation line of Cheviot
               parking is restricted by the use of parking meters from 7:00
                a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
Cheviot Avenue  No parking at any time on the east side of Cheviot Avenue
                between Harrison and Gamble Avenue.
                From Harrison Avenue to Gamble Avenue parking is restricted by
Cheviot Avenue  the use of parking meters from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday
                through Saturday.
North Bend Road  
               Present no parking zone extending 50 feet on both the east and
                the west sides of North Bend Road north of Harrison Avenue.
Bank Court      No parking at any time on the north side of Bank Court.
Forest Court    No parking at any time on the north side of Forest Court.
                No parking at any time on the west side of Glenmore Avenue
                between Woodbine Avenue and Harrision Avenue. Present no
Glenmore Avenue parking zones extending an additional 25 feet south on both
                east and west sides of Glenmore Avenue south of Harrison
                Avenue.
Delmar Avenue   No parking between Harrison Avenue and Woodbine Avenue on the
                east side of Delmar Avenue.
 
('73 Code, § 73.28)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who has received a citation tag notifying him of a
violation of any provision for any sections set forth as follows and who, upon
presenting the citation tag files a written plea of guilty with the mayor of
the city and deposits with him the amount of the penalty indicated in this
section, shall be fined for the violation of any provision of:
      (1)   Sections
76.01,
76.02,
76.04,
76.05(A),
76.05(C),
76.06,
76.15,
76.16,
76.23,
76.27,
76.35: $40. If the fine is not paid within 168 hours of the violation, the
violator shall be subject to arrest. If a warrant is issued for the offender,
such person shall be required to appear in the mayor's court. Violations of §§
76.05(F)(1)(a),
76.05(F)(1)(b), and
76.05(H) may be paid out within 168 hours according to the specific fines
listed in those sections or elsewhere by reference within §
76.05.
      (2)   Sections
76.17,
76.18,
76.20,
76.21,
76.25,
76.26: $40. If the fine is not paid within 168 hours of the violation, the fine
shall be $80. If not paid within 168 hours of the violation, the violator shall
be subject to arrest. If a warrant is issued for the offender, such person
shall be required to appear in mayor's court.
      (3)   Section
76.42 and
76.43: $25. If the fine is not paid within 168 hours of the violation, the fine
shall be $50. If not paid within 168 hours of violation, the violator shall be
subject to arrest. If a warrant is issued for the offender, such person shall
be required to appear in mayor's court.
      (4)   Section
71.20: $25. If the fine is not paid within 168 hours of the violation, the fine
shall be $50. If not paid within 168 hours of violation, the violator shall be
subject to arrest. If a warrant is issued for the offender, such person shall
be required to appear in mayor's court.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
76.44 or
76.45 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment of
not more than 60 days, or both.
   (C)   The court shall have the power to accept a plea of guilty as provided
in §
76.99(A), or to reject it and hold the case for trial. If the plea is accepted,
the penalty deposit shall be paid to the court, and the court shall have no
power to remit or suspend it or any part of it.
('73 Code, § 73.99) (Ord. 1382, passed 4-21-87; Am. Ord. 1586, passed 6-1-93;
Am. Ord. 98-24, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 98-46, passed 11-17-98; Am. Ord. 00-
10, passed 5-2-00; Am. Ord. 01-39, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 05-33, passed 12-
6-05; Am. Ord. 22-02, passed 2-15-22)
CHAPTER 77: SCHOOL BUSES
Section
   
77.01   Regulations concerning school buses
   
77.02   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
77.03   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
77.04   School bus inspection
   
77.05   School bus not used for school purposes
   
77.06   Licensing by department of public safety
   
77.07   Registration and identification of school buses
   
77.08   School bus marking
   
77.09   Flashing light signal lamps
   
77.10   Permits
   
77.11   Special equipment
   
77.12   Driver
   
77.13   Maximum load
   
77.14   School bus stops
   
77.15   Smoking
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
   HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
   SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered by
a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 77.02 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 77.03 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))   
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.04 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 77.05 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially  equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and
the bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially  equivalent
municipal ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent  municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.06 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.07 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof or
having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more
violations of R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79
or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.08 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially  equivalent  to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.09 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinances, be
equipped with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display
to the front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing
amber lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing
red lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771) ('73 Code, § 74.34)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.10 PERMITS.
   No school bus shall be operated within the corporate limits of the city
unless a permit for the bus has been obtained from the safety-service director
upon application in such form as the safety-service director may prescribe. The
permits shall be issued annually between August 1, and August 15, shall be
serially numbered, and the serial number of each permit shall be preceded by
the last 2 digits of the then current calendar year and shall expire one year
from the date of issuance. The safety-service director shall not issue any such
permit until he has first ascertained the roadworthiness of the vehicle, the
seating capacity thereof, and the compliance with the requirements of §
77.11. Each such permit shall be issued to a specific vehicle and shall not be
transferable. Before the vehicle is thereafter operated as a school bus, the
serial number of the permit and seating capacity shall be legibly painted in
letters and figures not less than 2 inches in height on the right side of the
bus near the door. In addition to the other penalties provided by the
ordinances of the city, any such permit may be revoked by the safety-service
director in the event the director should find that the vehicle to which the
permit was issued is unroadworthy or the vehicle should be found not in
compliance with the requirements of §
77.11. No fee shall be charged for the permit.
('73 Code, § 74.28)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.11 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   No school bus shall be operated within the corporate limits of the city
unless the bus is equipped with a suitable fire extinguisher, emergency flares,
first-aid kit, replacement fuses, and an electric warning device, visual or
auditory, in proper working order, by which the driver of the bus, while in
driving position, may be made aware that the emergency door of the bus is not
fully secured with all levers or handles fully engaged. The signal shall be
operable whether the bus is stationary or moving. The bus must be heated to a
reasonable degree of comfort.
('73 Code, § 74.30)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.12 DRIVER.
   No person shall operate a school bus within the corporate limits of the city
unless he is at least 21 years of age, is of good moral character, is qualified
physically and otherwise for the position and has been issued a current Ohio
chauffeur's license stamped "school bus driver" in accordance with the
provisions of the Revised Code of Ohio.
('73 Code, § 74.31)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.13 MAXIMUM LOAD.
   No person shall operate a school but within the corporate limits of the city
with more passengers than the rated seating capacity of the school bus nor with
any passengers standing.
('73 Code, § 74.32)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.14 SCHOOL BUS STOPS.
   The safety-service director shall prescribe the location of special school
bus stops and erect suitable signs at these locations. No school bus shall
board or discharge passengers other than at the school bus stops.
('73 Code, § 74.33)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.15 SMOKING.
   No person being the driver of or a passenger in a school bus shall be
permitted to smoke on the bus while the same is being operated.
('73 Code, § 74.35)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this §§
77.10 through
77.15 by the driver of any school bus or by the owner of any school bus shall,
upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not more than $100.
('73 Code, § 74.99; Am. Ord. 970, passed 1-7-75)
CHAPTER 78: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
78.01   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
78.02   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
78.03   Pedestrians on crosswalks
   
78.04   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
78.05   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
   
78.06   Pedestrians to yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
78.07   Right-of-way yielded to blind pedestrian
   
78.08   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
78.09   Pedestrian soliciting rides or riding on outside of vehicle prohibited
   
78.10   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
78.11   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
78.12   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
78.13   Low-speed micromobility devices
§ 78.01 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) ('73 Code, § 72.35)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.02 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.03 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.04 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) ('73 Code, §§ 72.47 and 72.58)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) ('73 Code, § 72.34)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.06 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.08 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.09 PEDESTRIAN SOLICITING RIDES OR RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in subsection (2) of this division, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver's vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver's vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 78.10 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.11 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent  state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to
imposing the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do
one of the following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this Code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 78.12 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.13 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 79: ASSEMBLAGES AND PARADES
Section
   
79.01   Parades
   
79.02   Parades in congested district
   
79.03   Breaking procession
   
79.04   Parking on parade route
   
79.05   Demonstrations on or near highway
   
79.06   Pedestrian assemblies
   
79.07   Sound trucks
§ 79.01 PARADES.
   No person shall conduct or participate in any street assemblage, parade, or
procession, other than a funeral procession, upon any highway except upon a
permit issued by the safety-service director. Applications for these permits
shall be made in such form as .the safety-service director may prescribe, not
less than five days before the time intended for the assemblage, parade, or
procession. The safety- service director shall in the permit or in an order
accompanying it designate the places of gathering or formation and of dispersal
of the assemblages, parades, or processions, the route of march or travel, and
the highways or portions of highways which may be used or occupied therein.
(`73 Code, § 74.19)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.02 PARADES IN CONGESTED DISTRICT.
   No person shall conduct or participate in any parade or procession in the
congested district of the city except funeral processions and parades and
processions of patriotic or civic character, or those of extraordinary public
interest, not periodical or customary or intended so to be, or those of
established patriotic or religious organizations.
(`73 Code, § 74.20)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.03 BREAKING PROCESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive between moving
vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession, but passage for
cross traffic shall be provided through parades at intervals not exceeding 10
minutes.
(`73 Code, § 74.21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.04 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   The safety-service director is authorized, whenever in his judgment it is
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade or a procession, to
erect temporary traffic signs to that effect. It shall be unlawful to park or
leave unattended any vehicle in violation of the signs.
(`73 Code, § 74.22)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.05 DEMONSTRATIONS ON OR NEAR HIGHWAY
   No person shall, upon any sidewall, or in or upon any prenees abutting
thereon, make any speech or harangue, or demonstrate, sell, or offer for sale
goods, wares, or merchandise or to display any sign, device, information, or
exhibition, in consequence of which there is caused or created such a gathering
of persons on the sidewalk as to interfere with pedestrian traffic thereon.
(`73 Code, § 74.24)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.06 PEDESTRIAN ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawfu1 for pedestrians to gather and remain in crowds or
assemblies at or about any point or place, or to move in crowds or assemblies
from place to place, upon the roadways or sidewalks in such numbers and in such
manner as to interfere with ordinary vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(`73 Code, § 74.25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 79.07 SOUND TRUCKS.
   No person shall operate or drive a sound truck in the city.
(`73 Code, § 74.26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   CURFEW
         
94.   GARBAGE; WASTE
         
95.   YARD SALE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Prohibited animals
   
90.02   Regulation of dogs
   
90.03   Confining dogs
   
90.04   Barking, howling, and yelping dogs
   
90.05   Animal or fowl within the city
   
90.06   Animal or fowl enclosures within the city
   
90.07   Animal enclosures creating unpleasant odors
   
90.08   Animal or fowl creating noise
   
90.09   Dog excrement removal
   
90.10   Dangerous and vicious dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to harbor, stable, keep, or permit to be
kept upon his premises or upon premises under his control within the corporate
limits of the city any animal of the swine family or any male animal of the
goat family.
('73 Code, § 90.01)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
Statutory reference:
   Animals running at large, R.C. Ch. 951
   Dogs, R.C. Ch. 955
   Offenses relating to domestic animals, R.C. Ch. 959
§ 90.02 REGULATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person in the city shall violate any order or regulation of the
Hamilton County District Board of Health pertaining to the antirabic
vaccination of dogs, obstruct or interfere with the execution of such order or
regulation, or willfully or illegally omit to obey such order or regulation.
   (B)   (1)   All dogs over four months of age and present within the city
must be validly licensed through the Hamilton County Auditor. Any person having
ownership or control of a dog over the age of four months shall be responsible
for obtaining such license for the dog. It shall be prima facie evidence that a
person has ownership or control over a dog if that dog is present at the
person’s residence of place of business.
      (2)   Each day of violation of this division may be considered a separate
and new offense.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall permit more than five dogs to be present at any
one time at a residence or place of business within the city. The limitation of
five dogs shall not include newly born dogs until they reach the age of six
months. The limitation of five dogs may be exceeded when all such dogs are
necessary for the assistance of handicapped or sight-impaired persons. However,
when the five dog limitation is exceeded in such circumstances, no more than
one day may be present for each handicapped or sight-impaired person. The
limitation of five dogs shall not apply to a pet grooming business or to a pet
retailing business which is validly licensed and operating within the business
district of the city.
      (2)   Each day of violation of this division may be considered a separate
and new offense.
   (D)   (1)   A KENNEL shall be defined as any location in which the person in
control breeds or boards dogs, whether overnight or throughout the course of
the day, for profit or for gain. All persons operating a kennel within the city
must be validly licensed through the Hamilton County Auditor, and must register
the kennel with the auditor of the city.
      (2)   Each day of violation of this division may be considered a separate
and new offense.
('73 Code, § 90.02) ( Am. Ord. 04-05, passed 2-17-04)
Penalty, see § 90.99(C)
§ 90.03 CONFINING DOGS.
   All dogs when not under control of or with the owner or a member of the
owner’s family, or held on a leash not to exceed ten feet in length by a
responsible person, must be kept on the premises of the owner. All pens, cages,
and other enclosures must conform with the requirements of §
150.06(K)(5) of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
('73Code, § 90.03; Am. Ord. 1261, passed 6-14-83; Am. Ord. 04-05, passed 2-17-
04)
Penalty, see § 90.99(B)
§ 90.04 BARKING, HOWLING, AND YELPING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to harbor, keep, or permit to be kept upon
his premises or upon premises under his control within the corporate limits of
the city any dog or animal which, by loud and frequent or habitual barking,
howling, or yelping in the day or night season shall cause serious annoyance or
disturbance to one or more persons of ordinary sensibilities, inhabiting two or
more residences in the city.
('73 Code, § 90.04)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
§ 90.05 ANIMAL OR FOWL WITHIN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone in the city to keep or maintain within 150
feet of a dwelling house any pen, hutch, coop, or enclosure, or a series of
pens, coops, hutches, or enclosures where more than 20 domestic fowls or
domestic animals are kept at one time, without first applying therefor and
receiving a permit. A permit, upon proper application, shall be issued by the
mayor to a person so applying, upon his establishing to the Board of Health of
the County of Hamilton that the premises, buildings, and enclosures are
suitable as to light, air, and sanitary conditions for such use without serious
inconvenience and annoyance to the neighborhood. Application for the permit
shall be made to the mayor and, if approved by the mayor, the permit shall be
issued, valid until April 1 of the ensuing year, and shall be issued for the
sum of $1. The mayor shall have full power to, and shall, revoke the license of
anyone who, by reason of the unsanitary condition of his pens, buildings,
hutches, or enclosures, shall cause serious annoyance to the neighborhood. Upon
revocation of the permit, ten days' time shall be allowed for the owner thereof
to dispose of the fowls. Any person whose permit has been revoked shall not be
eligible for another permit until the lapse of 90 days from the date of
revocation.
('73 Code, § 90.05)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
§ 90.06 ANIMAL OR FOWL ENCLOSURES WITHIN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to maintain upon his premises, or to permit
the maintenance upon property under his control within the corporate limits of
the city of a chicken house, pen, or coop, rabbit house, pen, or hutch, or any
building wherein domestic animals or fowl are generally kept, which building,
pen, coop, or hutch shall be within 25 feet of any occupied dwelling house
within the city.
('73 Code, § 90.06)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL OR FOWL ENCLOSURES CREATING UNPLEASANT ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to maintain upon his premises, or to permit
the maintenance thereon or upon premises under his control within the corporate
limits of the city of any building, pen, coop, hutch, or enclosure where fowl
or animals are kept, which building, pen, coop, hutch, or enclosure shall emit
or be permitted to emit foul, unpleasant, or noisome odors to the serious
annoyance of the neighborhood.
('73 Code, § 90.07)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
§ 90.08 ANIMAL OR FOWL CREATING NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to harbor, keep, or maintain, or permit to
be kept or harbored upon his premises or upon premises under his control within
the corporate limits of the city any fowl or animals which, by the emitting of
frequent sounds, cause serious disturbance of the peace and quiet of one or
more persons of ordinary sensibilities inhabiting two or more residences in the
city.
('73 Code, § 90.08)
Penalty, see § 90.99(A)
§ 90.09 DOG EXCREMENT REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall allow a dog under his control to be upon public
property or upon the property of another, absent the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property, without some device for the removal and containment
of any excrement deposited by the dog under his control on public or private
property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 1302, passed 8-13-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.10 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)    DANGEROUS DOG. A dog which has:
         (a)   Without provocation while off of its owner’s or harborer’s
premises, caused an individual to reasonably believe that the dog will cause
physical harm to a person; or
         (b)   A propensity or disposition to unprovokedly attack or cause
injury to humans or domestic animals off of its owner’s or harborer’s premises.
      (2)    VICIOUS DOG. A dog which:
         (a)   Without provocation has inflicted severe injury on a person;
         (b)   Has been trained for dog fighting or is kept primarily or in
part for the purpose of dog fighting;
         (c)   Is a dog commonly defined as a “pit bull;” or
         (d)   Has been used in the commission of a crime.
   (B)   Dangerous dog to be properly confined or leashed. The owner or
harborer of a dangerous dog shall keep said dog:
      (1)   When outdoors and on the premises, in a securely fenced area or
tied with a leash so that the dog is adequately restrained; and
      (2)   When not on the premises, securely restrained with a leash not
exceeding six feet in length and under the control of a competent adult.
   (C)   Vicious dog to be properly confined or leashed. The owner or harborer
of a vicious dog shall:
      (1)   When the dog is indoors secure all means of egress so that the dog
may not exit;
      (2)   When the dog is outside and on the premises of the owner or
harborer, confine the dog at all times in a roofed, securely locked fenced
barricade so that the dog may not dig its way out. The barricade must be posted
with a sign stating “vicious dog” both by symbol and words and be constructed
so that a child cannot penetrate the barricade with his hand.
      (3)   When the dog is off of the premises of the owner or harborer,
muzzled and securely restrained with a leash not to exceed six feet in length
and under the control of a competent adult. In the alternative, the vicious dog
may be confined in a locked crate constructed of material of sufficient
strength to prevent escape and posted with a sign stating “vicious dog” both by
symbol and words and constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the barricade
with his hand.
      (4)   When the dog is in a vehicle or is being transported in an open
truck bed or other conveyance, it shall be confined in a locked crate or cage,
which is constructed of material of sufficient strength to prevent escape and
posted with a sign stating “vicious dog” by both symbol and words and
constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the barricade with his hand.
   (D)   Possession of dangerous or vicious dogs limited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than
three dangerous dogs at one time.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than one
vicious dog over the age of six months at one time. The burden of proving the
age of the dog shall be on the owner or harborer, and shall be an affirmative
defense to a charge under this section.
   (E)   Dangerous and vicious dogs to be registered.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor a dangerous or
vicious dog unless the dog has been registered with the police department. The
dog must be registered within seven days of possession. The owner or harborer
shall provide the police department with:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person possessing
the dog and the address where the dog is harbored if different from the owner’s
address; and
         (b)   A current photograph of the animal and a description including
the genus and species, common name, gender, color, and any other distinguishing
physical characteristics including weight and height.
      (2)   The cost of registration shall be $50 per vicious dog and $35 for a
dangerous dog. The owner or harborer shall re-register the dog annually.
      (3)   If the dog has been sold, given away, or if control of the dog has
been in any manner transferred, the transferring owner or harborer shall notify
the police department within 24 hours of the transfer and the name and address
of the individual harboring the dog.
   (F)   Liability insurance required. No owner, keeper, or harborer of a
vicious dog shall fail to obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized
to write liability insurance in the state of Ohio providing coverage in each
occurrence, with coverage, exclusive of interest and costs, of not less than
$50,000 for damage, bodily injury, or death of a person caused by the vicious
dog.
   (G)   Seizure and impoundment of dog.
      (1)   A police officer or dog warden shall remove from the premises any
vicious dog not properly confined if the owner or harborer of the dog has been
previously convicted of violating division (C) of this section.
      (2)   A police officer or dog warden shall remove from the premises or
any location any dog that has attacked or severely injured a human.
      (3)   A police officer or dog warden who removes a dog pursuant to this
section shall file the appropriate complaint in the mayor’s court or in
municipal court and hold the dog until final adjudication of the charge.
   (H)   Pit bull identification. A “pit bull” may be identified by a
veterinarian licensed by the State of Ohio, or by a dog warden or a deputy dog
warden. “Pit bull” shall include those breeds of dogs commonly categorized as
“pit bulls” by the American Kennel Club.
   (I)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (E) or (F) of this section shall be
guilty of a second degree misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with
§
130.99.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section shall be
guilty of a first degree misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with §
130.99.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties enumerated in division (1) and (2)
above, any vicious dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal may be
ordered to be destroyed, when, in the court’s judgment, such vicious dog
represents a continuing threat of severe harm to human beings or domestic
animals.
      (4)   Any person found guilty of violating division (C) of this section
shall pay all expenses including shelter, food, and transportation of the dog,
expenses for identification of the breed, and veterinary expenses necessitated
by the seizure of the dog for the protection of the public.
(Ord. 00-18, passed 5-16-00)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08, shall be fined not more than $150 together with the costs in such case.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
90.03 shall be fined not more than $150.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
90.02(A), (C), or (D) shall be fined not more than $300 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both. Whoever violates §
90.02(B) shall be fined not more than $150. No person shall be imprisoned for
the first offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
90.09 shall be fined not more than $150.
(Ord. 1302, passed 8-13-84; Am. Ord. 04-05, passed 2-17-04)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of fire prevention code
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The most current Southwest Ohio Fire Safety Council Fire Code is adopted by
incorporation by reference as fully and completely as if fully rewritten
herein.
(Ord. 1177, passed 6-24-80; Am. Ord. 95-44, passed 10-3-95; Am. Ord. 01-27,
passed 9-4-01)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   General responsibility
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Notice to property owners
   
92.04   Permits
   
92.05   Fees
   
92.06   Contractor's license
   
92.07   Specifications
   
92.08   Appeal and protest rights
   
92.09   Snow and debris removal
   
92.10   Installation of flagpole sockets
   
92.11   Sidewalk or driveway heating systems
   92.12   Safety-Service Director's regulations of outdoor or sidewalk patios
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 GENERAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The laying out, construction, repair, and maintenance of sidewalks and
driveways of lots or lands abutting all public ways within the city shall be
the responsibility of and shall be done at the expense of the person owning the
lots or lands where such improvements and maintenance may be required to be
made/done, unless stated otherwise in this chapter.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
Penalty, see § 92.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to require repair of sidewalks, see R.C. § 729.01 et
seq.
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the city or his duly
authorized agent.
   THE CITY. The City of Cheviot, acting through its safety service director or
his properly authorized agents; such agents acting severally within the scope
of the particular duties entrusted to them.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY. Any driveway providing access to a commercial
establishment in business for the purpose of servicing or storing motor
vehicles, loading or unloading merchandise transported in the vehicle, or
serving the driver of the vehicle while he remains in the vehicle.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation undertaking this
contract, acting directly or through a duly authorized representative.
   COUNCIL. Legislative authority of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The safety-service director of the city or his duly authorized
agent.
   DRIVEWAY. Any paved area constructed within the public right-of-way,
connecting the paved public roadway with private property, for the purpose of
providing access for motor vehicles to private property.
   ENGINEER. The city engineer of the city or his duly authorized agent.
   INSPECTOR. The authorized representative of the city engineer or building
commissioner assigned to make a detailed inspection of any and all portions of
the work, or materials thereof.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal natures.
   OWNER. When applied to property, shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, tenant by the entireties, or sole owner, of the whole or part
of such property.
   PERSONS or WHOEVER. Includes all natural and artificial persons including
but not limited to partners, servants, principals, agents, employees, public or
private officials, associations, societies, clubs, firms, partnerships, and
bodies politic or corporate.
   PREMISES. As applied to property shall include land and buildings.
   PRISMATIC LIGHTS. Any transparent material such as glass or plastic,
inserted in the surface of a sidewalk for the purpose of transmitting light to
a sidewalk sub-space.
   PROPERTY. Includes real (lands, tenements, and hereditaments), personal (all
property except real), mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
public conveyance, or any other place for the sale of merchandise, public
accommodation, or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   ROADWAY or STREET PAVEMENT.  That portion of a street between curbs or the
portion devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SANDSTONE SLAB. Any natural stone slab used as a sidewalk pavement.
   SIDEWALK. That portion from the established or presumable curb line and the
adjacent property lines set aside for pedestrian use.
   SIDEWALK SUB-SPACE. Any open space under the surface of a sidewalk adjacent
to a building.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, courts,
terraces, streets, places, drives, ways, circles, highways, and all other
public thoroughfares within the city set apart for travel, including the area
from property line to property line.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises shall include any person holding
a written or oral lease or month to month agreement, or who actually occupies
the whole or any part of such premises, alone or with others.
   WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures whether
by printing or otherwise.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
§ 92.03 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Director or his or her agent shall find that any sidewalk
or driveway should be constructed, or that any paved sidewalk, driveway, or
sidewalk area between the curb line and sidewalk being grass or other, is not
in repair or free from nuisance, he or she shall notify the owner of the
abutting property, in writing, to have the necessary construction,
reconstruction, repairs made, or nuisance removed.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served by the Director on the owner or owners or
the agent in charge of the property in a manner provided by law for the service
of summons in civil actions, or by certified mail addressed to such owner or
owners or agent at the last known address or at the address to which tax bills
are sent, or by a combination of the foregoing methods. The return of the
person serving the notice or a certified copy thereof or a returned receipt for
notice forwarded by certified mail accepted by the addressee or anyone
purporting to act for the addresses shall be prima facie evidence of the
service of notice under this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of such service, any person charged with the
collection of rents or the payment of taxes on the property or having general
control of it in any way, shall be considered the agent of the owner.
   (D)   If it appears by the return of service or the return of the certified
mail notice that one or more of the owners cannot be found, such owners shall
be served by publication of the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the Cincinnati, Ohio area.
   (E)   The notice provided shall identify the property and give the location
of the sidewalk, driveway, or sidewalk area and the period of time allowed the
property owner to have the work done by private contract. Such period of time
shall not be less than 60 days from date of service of notice or the mailing of
certified mail notice.
   (F)   If a sidewalk, driveway, or driveway area is not constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, or freed from nuisance within the period of time
permitted by the notice to the owner of the abutting property, or the owner's
agent, the Director shall cause the work to be done by contract, or by city
forces, or both, and the entire cost, including all construction costs and any
temporary emergency repair costs, all permit fees, and the administrative cost,
shall be charged against such property. The administrative cost shall be $25 or
18% of the construction costs, whichever is larger; however said administrative
cost shall not exceed $200.
   (G)   Bills issued under this section shall be payable within 30 days from
the date of such bills. Bills not paid within 30 days shall be reported to the
City Council for assessment against the abutting property.
   (H)   In case of emergency, the Director is authorized to have temporary
repairs made, or to barricade, and to position caution/warning lights, or
otherwise provide for the public safety. The cost of all such emergency repair
and protection shall be charged against the abutting property, and shall be
collected as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   From date of service of notice, all required work shall be completed
within a reasonable time of 60 days unless modified by the Director. Such
modification will only be given to avoid undue hardship on the owner or provide
for the safety and convenience of the public.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 19-30, passed 1-7-20) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, lay, or repair a
sidewalk or driveway across a sidewalk on any street without first securing a
permit from the building commissioner. The application for the permit shall
contain a statement showing the location of the proposed sidewalk or driveway,
the exact number of lineal feet of sidewalk or driveway involved, the name and
the address of the owner of the abutting premises, and such other pertinent
information as the building commissioner may require. Separate permits shall be
required for each lot or parcel of real estate involved. It shall be unlawful,
subject to a fine of not more than $25 for any person, directly or indirectly,
as principal, agent, or employee to construct or repair, or to attempt to
construct or repair, any sidewalk or driveway without having obtained the
required permit or permits for such work. The provisions stated in this
division (A) shall not apply to sidewalk repair or construction being
undertaken as part of a public works contract or improvement.
   (B)   The building commissioner may, at his discretion, issue a free permit
to a property owner where repairs of minor importance are made to a sidewalk
abutting his property.
   (C)   Under these permits a reasonable use of sidewalk or street space is
authorized for deposit of materials and equipment for construction or repair,
subject to any rules or regulations of the building commissioner or director
governing such temporary deposits.
   (D)   No permit shall be granted to construct, lay, or repair a sidewalk or
driveway except to a licensed cement contractor unless the building
commissioner deems the repairs of minor importance.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.05 FEES.
   (A)   The permit fees for construction, reconstruction, or repair of
sidewalks shall be as follows:
      (1)   Sidewalk – 50 lineal feet or less       $20.00
         Minimum fee includes one driveway with a width at the street pavement
of 20 lineal feet or less.
      (2)   Sidewalk -- 50 lineal feet or less       $20.00
         Minimum fee includes one driveway with a width at the street pavement
of over 20 lineal feet.
   (B)   Add $6.50 to the initial or minimum fee for each additional 50 lineal
feet of sidewalk or fraction thereof, plus $8.00 for each additional driveway
with a width at the street pavement of 20 lineal feet or less, or $10.00 for
each additional driveway with a width at the street pavement over 20 lineal
feet.
   (C)   All monies received as deposits or payments under this section and §
92.03 shall be paid to the treasurer of the city and credited to a fund to be
known as "sidewalk and driveway restoration fund". The director shall have the
right to draw vouchers from time to time against the fund for the labor,
material, services, use of tools and equipment, payment of contractors, and
supervision furnished by the engineer upon completion of each contract or
individual job.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 18-08, passed - -18) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall undertake to construct, lay, or
repair a sidewalk or driveway, unless he or it shall have previously secured a
license as a cement contractor, or unless where the building commissioner has
deemed the repairs be of minor importance and a free permit has been issued.
   (B)   A contractor's license fee of $30 shall be charged for each license,
which license shall be dated as of date of issue and shall expire one year from
the date of issue. There shall be a fee of $30 for each consecutive yearly
renewal of said license.
   (C)   Application for cement contractor's license shall be made to the
director or his agent. If the director is satisfied that the applicant is
qualified to properly lay and construct cement sidewalks and driveways, a
license shall then be issued.
   (D)   In case any cement contractor shall fail to comply with the rules and
specifications governing any sidewalk and driveway construction or repair
undertaken by him, the director shall be authorized to revoke the license of
such contractor.
   (E)   This license requires all work done by him to be in good condition and
repair, for a term of one year from date of inspection by the director or his
agent, and any portion of the work that becomes defective through settlement,
by cracking, breaking of surface, or in any other manner, shall be removed and
replaced with new work by the contractor, at his own expense. A license must be
in effect but any permit fees will be waived.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.07 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The city engineer or building commissioner is authorized to make all
specifications governing construction, reconstruction, or repairs to all
sidewalks and driveways.
   (B)   All specifications, instructions, and general provisions governing the
construction, reconstruction, or repair of sidewalks and driveways will be
available at the director's or building commissioner's office at a reasonable
cost to cover the printing and material expense.
   (C)   If, at any time, it is found that the driveway or sidewalk provisions
set forth in this chapter or supplement are impracticable for a particular
case, the city engineer or building commissioner shall be authorized to modify
the strict application of the same, so as, on one hand, to provide for the
safety, convenience, and welfare of the public, and on the other hand, to avoid
undue hardship on the owner, in harmony with the purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   Where an owner is dissatisfied with the modifications authorized by
the city engineer or building commissioner, he may appeal to city council whose
decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 1349, passed 6-10-86)
§ 92.08 APPEAL AND PROTEST RIGHTS.
   (A)   Any owner from date of served notice shall have 30 days to appeal said
notice. Each appeal must be in writing including owner information.
   (B)   An appeals board consisting of three residents of the city who are not
holders of any elected office shall serve as a board to hear and determine any
protests filed by property owners or their agents as to sidewalk and driveway
construction, reconstruction or repair. The mayor shall have the responsibility
for appointing this board.
   (C)   If protests are filed prior to the doing of the work called for by the
notice from the director or his agent, the board of appeals shall have
authority to modify, alter, or revoke any such notice, as to the amount or type
or work required, or the time in which it must be completed, consistent with
the city ordinances and specifications regarding sidewalk and driveway
construction, reconstruction, or repair. The board shall have the authority to
waive strict compliance with such requirements where such compliance would
cause undue hardship, provided such waiver will not cause or continue a public
nuisance or an unsafe condition.
   (D)   If protests are filed after the work provided for in the notice to the
property owner has begun or has been completed, the board's authority shall be
limited to determining that the amount of the bill is correct and is charged
against the correct property, and that the work done or being done was or is in
accordance with the notice to the property owner. If the board shall find that
an amount has been incorrectly charged against the property, but the work is or
has been done for which the city contractor is entitled to payment, it may
order such payment upon completion of the work from the "sidewalk and driveway
restoration fund" to cover that portion of the city's responsibility.
   (E)   All protests regarding the sidewalk or driveway construction,
reconstruction, or repairs, or assessments therefore shall be filed in writing
with the director who shall notify the person filing such protest of the date
and place of hearing before the appeals board.
   (F)   The decision of the Sidewalk/Driveway Appeals Board shall be final.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 1418, passed 7-5-88; Am. Ord. 1541,
passed 3-17-92)
§ 92.09 SNOW AND DEBRIS REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, person or whoever having the care of any building
premises or unimproved lot or land abutting any street being a business or
private residence, where there is a graded sidewalk or driveway or is a
sidewalk or driveway graded and paved, shall, within the first 4 hours after
daylight after the ceasing to fall of any snow, cause the same to be removed
from the paved or traveled part of such sidewalk. The provisions of this
section shall also apply to the falling of snow or ice from any building onto a
sidewalk or driveway. Snow or ice shall not be moved into the gutter when the
gutter has been previously cleaned, and in no event shall snow or ice from any
area other than the pedestrian sidewalk be moved into the gutter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sweep, throw, or otherwise deposit leaves,
sweepings, litter, or other matter from private property onto a sidewalk or
from a sidewalk onto a roadway or into the gutter thereof, or to ignite or burn
the same on a street pavement, or to cause the same to be done.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
Penalty, see § 92.99
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks to be kept free of ice, see §
131.04(B)
§ 92.10 INSTALLATION OF FLAGPOLE SOCKETS.
   The director is authorized to prepare rules and regulations governing the
installation of flagpole sockets in the sidewalk of any street. Approval of
such installation will only be granted by city council.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
§ 92.11 SIDEWALK OR DRIVEWAY HEATING SYSTEMS.
   Any sidewalk or driveway heating systems plans and specifications shall be
approved by the city engineer and the building commissioner, then presented to
city council for final approval.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81)
§ 92.12 SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR'S REGULATIONS OF OUTDOOR OR SIDEWALK PATIOS.
   The Safety-Service Director of the city shall have the power to establish
rules and regulations, not specifically covered in the Cheviot Code of
Ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code, for the regulation of the use of the right
of way on the sidewalk within the city for outdoor or sidewalk patios.
(Ord. 20-03, passed - - )
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.01,
92.03,
92.04,
92.05,
92.06,
92.09, or
92.12 shall be fined not more than $25 for the first offense and not more than
$200 for each succeeding offense.
(Ord. 1220, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 20-03, passed - - )
CHAPTER 93: CURFEW
Section
   
93.01   Curfew for certain minors
   
93.02   Responsibility of parents, guardians, other adults
   
93.03   Work certificates
   
93.04   Imposition of curfew by mayor
   
93.05   Attendance at school
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 CURFEW FOR CERTAIN MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 16 years shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll,
play, or drive or ride in a motor vehicle in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public buildings, places
of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other places in the
municipality, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, official city time. However, the provisions of this section do not apply
to a minor accompanied by his parents, guardian, or other adult having the care
of and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by his parents, guardian, or other adult having
the care and custody of the minor.
   (B)   No minor between the ages of 16 and 18 years shall loiter, idle,
wander, stroll, play, or drive or ride in a motor vehicle in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other places
in the municipality, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the same
day, official city time. However, the provisions of this section do not apply
to a minor accompanied by his parents, guardian, or other adult having the
lawful care, custody, or control of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his parents, guardian, or
other adult having the lawful care, custody, or control of the minor. This
section shall not apply to military personnel of the United States.
   (C)   As used in this section, ADULT shall mean a person at least 21 years
of age.
('73 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 01-13, passed 6-5-01)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS, OTHER ADULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other adult having the
lawful care, custody, or control of minors included in § 93.01 to permit or
allow these minors to violate the provisions of this section.
('73 Code, § 95.02)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 WORK CERTIFICATES.
   Any minor past the age of 16 years who has a working certificate and whose
work may require him or her to be out at hours later than those specified in
this section may make application to the chief of police for written
permission. The chief of police may grant permission, but the minor shall not
be out later than 1/2 hour beyond the time that the work of the minor shall
end.
('73 Code, § 95.03)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 IMPOSITION OF CURFEW BY MAYOR.
   (A)   The mayor may in times of emergency, or when there is clear and
present danger of an emergency, such as, but not to be limited to, natural
disorders caused by an act of God, explosions, fires, tumult, diffusing
explosive vapors, diffusing dangerous chemicals or liquids, civil emergency,
power failures, or aircraft accidents, proclaim in writing a state of
emergency.
   (B)   As part of such proclamation or by subsequent written order after the
proclamation is issued, the mayor may, in his discretion as he deems necessary
to the public safety:
      (1)   Delineate the boundaries of any area threatened by such emergency
condition and restrict or prohibit the movement of persons into, from, or
within such area;
      (2)   Establish a curfew within such area, and prohibit persons from
being out-of- doors during the curfew;
      (3)   Prohibit the sale, offering for sale, dispensing, and
transportation of firearms and other deadly weapons, ammunition, dynamite, and
other dangerous explosives, incendiary devices, and any necessary ingredient
thereof;
      (4)   Issue reasonable regulations to repress the emergency condition,
and prevent looting, vandalism, disturbances, and/or disorderly conduct, in
order to preserve the peace and good order and protect the lives and property
of the inhabitants of this municipal corporation.
   (C)   When the danger has passed, the mayor shall forthwith make a
proclamation that the emergency has ended; and any proclamation, order, or
regulation issued pursuant to this section shall then become void.
   (D)   The powers conferred by this section are in addition to any other
powers which may be conferred by law and nothing in this section shall be
construed to modify or limit such authority, powers, duties, and
responsibilities of any officer or public official as may be provided by law.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit suspension of the
privilege of a writ of habeas corpus.
('73 Code, § 95.04)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 ATTENDANCE AT SCHOOL.
   (A)   No child, between the ages of six and 18 years, who is actually a
resident in the state, shall be upon or about the public streets, public
places, commercial establishments, or places of amusement and entertainment
within the city during the hours when the child is required to be in attendance
at either a public or private school, an alternative program placement
designated by the Cincinnati Board of Education, or is under suspension or
expulsion from a public or private school, unless the child is accompanied by a
parent, guardian, or other adult person having care and custody of him or her,
or is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed by a
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of him or
her. A child who has been suspended or expelled but also has been placed in and
is attending an alternative learning center program approved by the Cincinnati
Board of Education shall be considered to be in compliance with this section. A
child who is placed in a bona fide home schooling program shall be subject to
the terms of this section during the same regular hours that Cheviot Elementary
School is in session.
   (B)   Any child who violates this section shall be adjudicated an unruly
child pursuant to this section and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 10-06, passed 3-16-10) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any minors found violating any provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.03, or §
93.05, shall be taken to the municipal police department and parents,
guardians, or any other adult having the lawful care, custody, or control of
the minors shall be notified to come to the department. The minors shall be
released only to such persons or to the Hamilton County Juvenile Court, as the
police officer or officers may determine.
   (B)   Any minors in violation of §§
93.01 through
93.03, or §
93.05, shall be referred to the Hamilton County Juvenile Court or to the
Hamilton County Juvenile Referee for the municipality for such disposition as
may be allowed by the Hamilton County Juvenile Court or the laws of the State
of Ohio.
   (C)   Any parent, guardian, or adult having the lawful care, custody, or
control of the minor who should violate §§
93.01 through
93.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than $100.
   (D)   Whoever violates any prohibition contained in §
93.04, or knowingly fails to perform any duty required by a proclamation,
order, or regulation issued and in effect pursuant to §
93.04, shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(Am. Ord. 10-06, passed 3-16-10)
CHAPTER 94: GARBAGE; WASTE
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Dumping of waste prohibited
   
94.03   Loose waste material
   
94.04   Chemical wastes, dumping prohibited
   
94.05   Combustible waste, dumping prohibited
   
94.06   Commercial wastes, disposal of
   
94.07   Discharge of offensive dust prohibited
   
94.08   Accumulation of waste, inspection
   
94.09   Containers
   
94.10   Notice to remove junk from premises
   
94.11   Abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
94.12   Collection or storage of junk declared a nuisance
   
94.13   Willfully abandoning junk motor vehicle prohibited
   
94.14   Non-resident dumping prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)    JUNK. Any worn-out, cast-off, or discarded article or material which
is ready for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or
conversion to some other use, automobiles without license plates valid in Ohio.
Any article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without further
reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily as when new,
shall not be considered JUNK.
   (B)    RUBBISH. Wire, chips, shavings, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin,
cast or wooden ware, hoses, rags, dead weeds, stumps, tree trunks, brush, paper
circulars, handbills, boots, shoes, ashes, metal, discarded parts and
equipment, or any waste material other than garbage or offal.
   (C)    WASTE. All trash, rubbish, garbage, wastepaper, nails, pieces of
glass, boards, fruit parings, ashes, cans, bottles, glass, oil, plastics, or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, and all other refuse or
discarded matter, but shall not include recognized by-products of any business
or industry having commercial value and regularly handled in the ordinary
course of business, unless such by-products shall be a nuisance or menace to
public health.
('73 Code, § 94.01)
Cross-reference:
   Other garbage regulations,
Ch. 50
§ 94.02 DUMPING OF WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall store, throw, or sweep into any street, avenue,
alley, park, or public ground any waste, or place such matter on the sidewalk,
street crossing, or any driveway, or upon the floor, stairway, or hallway of
any public building, theater, railroad depot, or platform, or along, on, or
near any public or private property in the city.
('73 Code, § 94.02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 LOOSE WASTE MATERIAL.
   All loose wastepaper, rags, and other waste material of such kind as to be
subject to being blown about by the wind or otherwise scattered must be hauled
in such manner as not to litter the streets. Such materials shall not be loaded
or unloaded along the public streets or sidewalks, except in suitable
containers.
('73 Code, § 94.03)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 CHEMICAL WASTES, DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation having the care of any premises or property
in the municipality shall permit gas, oil, liquid dye, chemicals, paints,
brine, or any other injurious or gaseous liquid, substance, or any other impure
matter to drain or otherwise come in contact with any adjoining premises.
('73 Code, § 94.04)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 COMBUSTIBLE WASTE, DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall dump any combustible waste on any
public or private property. No person shall dump or store any dirt or other
noncombustible waste of any kind on public or private property without proper
written authority from the city.
('73 Code, § 94.05)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.06 COMMERCIAL WASTES, DISPOSAL OF.
   Commercial combustible and noncombustible waste shall be hauled to a public
dump, landfill, or incinerator at the expense of the person, firm, or
corporation producing the same. Such commercial waste shall not be allowed to
accumulate on any premises and it shall be the duty of each commercial
establishment occupying any premises to provide or maintain a substantial
fireproof can, box, or container for the storage of rubbish and waste. All such
containers shall be stored as far from the street or public way as possible,
and as great a distance from neighboring premises as practicable. Each rubbish
and waste container shall be so constructed as to prevent its contents from
being scattered by the wind, or from being susceptible to catching fire or to
dropping its contents when moved.
('73 Code, § 94.06)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.07 DISCHARGE OF OFFENSIVE DUST PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be discharged
from any coal tipple, conveyor, truck, elevator, coal car, silo, factory, or
premises, into any yard, coal yard, alley, or unloading lot, any noisome or
offensive liquid, dust, coal dust, or any substance harmful to property or
health of persons residing in or near such street, alley, coal yard, or public
place, or suffer or permit any noisome or offensive steam, vapor, gas, smoke,
fumes, dust, coal dust, harmful to property or health, to escape or be
discharged from any chimney, coal car, truck, elevator, pipe, silo, or tipple
or other vent on its premises.
('73 Code, § 94.07)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.08 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE, INSPECTION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall allow the accumulation, storage, or
dumping on any premises in the municipality of any waste or unclean or
unsightly matter, except in containers as hereinabove provided. The chief of
police shall make a periodic inspection of premises in the municipality, and
shall notify personally or by certified mail the owner or persons in charge of
any premises which are in violation of this chapter to cease the violation
within 20 days.
('73 Code,§ 94.08)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.09 CONTAINERS.
   Every householder shall provide himself with proper containers for waste,
sufficient in number to store the accumulation of waste between the dates of
regular waste collection. No garbage or waste shall be allowed to remain
exposed in any building or on any premises a longer time than shall be
necessary to receive and deposit the same in proper waste containers.
('73 Code, § 94.09)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.10 NOTICE TO REMOVE JUNK FROM PREMISES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any premises within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or otherwise shall allow any junk,
junk cars, rubbish to remain upon such premises longer than 10 days after
receipt of written notice to remove said junk, junk cars, or rubbish from the
premises. The written notice shall be issued by the safety-service director of
the city.
   (B)   The written notice shall be served upon the person in charge either
personally or by leaving the notice at his usual place of residence, or by
certified mail addressed to his last known place of residence.
   (C)   If the party in charge is a firm or corporation, the written notice
may be served personally upon the persons in charge at the premises, or by
leaving the notice at the place of business of the party, or by certified mail
addressed to the place of business.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply, however, to the
deposit, storage, maintenance, or collection of junk, junk cars, rubbish in an
enclosed building as permitted by the ordinances of the city, or in any area of
the city in which the same shall be permitted by the ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
for the first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 737, passed 9- 19-67)
§ 94.11 ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)    ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor vehicle meeting all of
the following requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for more than 72 hours without the
permission of the person having the right to the possession of the property, on
a public street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway,
for 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   Three years old, or older;
      (3)   Extensively damaged, such damage including but not limited to any
of the following: a broken window or windshield, missing wheels, tires, motor,
or transmission;
      (4)   Apparently inoperable;
      (5)   Having a fair market value of $100 or less.
   (B)   The chief of police or a state highway patrolman, upon notification to
the chief of police of such action, shall order any abandoned junk motor
vehicle to be photographed by a law enforcement officer in the place where
abandoned. The officer shall record the make of motor vehicle, the serial
number when available, and shall also detail the damage or missing equipment to
substantiate the value of $100 or less. The chief of police shall thereupon
immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor vehicle to a junkyard or scrap
metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05, or to any other
facility owned by or under contract with the county or municipal corporation
for the disposal of such motor vehicles. The records and photograph relating to
the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained by the law enforcement
agency ordering the disposition of such vehicle for a period of at least 2
years. The law enforcement agency shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit,
as prescribed by the registrar of motor vehicles, describing the motor vehicle
and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all requirements of this
section have been complied with, and shall sign and file the same with the
clerk of courts of the county in which the motor vehicle was abandoned. The
clerk of courts shall retain the original of the affidavit for his files, shall
furnish one copy thereof to the registrar, one copy to the junkyard or other
facility handling the disposal of the vehicle, and one copy to the law
enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who shall file such copy with the
records and photograph relating to the disposal. Any moneys arising from the
disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be deposited in the general
fund of the county or the municipal corporation, as the case may be.
(Ord. 737, passed 9-19- 67)
§ 94.12 COLLECTION OR STORAGE OF JUNK DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Except as otherwise provided, the deposit, storage, maintenance, or
collection of junk, junk cars, or rubbish outside of a building or buildings is
declared to be a public nuisance and offensive to the public health, welfare,
and safety of the people of the city.
(Ord. 737, passed 9-19-67)
§ 94.13 WILLFULLY ABANDONING JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in §
94.11 on private property for more than 72 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway, for 48
hours or longer without notification to the chief of police of the municipal
corporation of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor, and shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the city in
disposing of the abandoned junk motor vehicle, less any moneys accruing to the
city from such disposal.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 94.14 NON-RESIDENT DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any non-resident person or business to
dispose, dump, throw, or place any non-recyclable materials including, but not
limited to yard waste, garbage or litter, in the dumpsters located at the city
maintenance garage on Robb Avenue.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a penalty payable in a fine of not
more than $100.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 5-3-94)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $100. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder.
CHAPTER 95: YARD SALE REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Safety-Service Director's regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR’S REGULATIONS.
   The Safety-Service Director of the city shall have the power to establish
rules and regulations, not specifically covered in the Cheviot Code of
Ordinances, for the regulation of yard sales within the city.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 4-16-19) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of the rules and regulations established
pursuant to §
95.01 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor punishable in accordance with the
penalties specified in §
130.99.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 4-16-19)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   REGULATION OF THE SALE OF SERVICES AND PRODUCTS
         
111.   ROOMING HOUSES; RENTAL PROPERTY
         
112.   INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFES
         
113.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
         
114.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: REGULATION OF THE SALE OF SERVICES AND PRODUCTS
Section
Coin-Operated Amusements
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Mechanical requirements
   
110.03   License requirement
   
110.04   License application
   
110.05   License fee
   
110.06   License revocation
   
110.07   Inspection
   
110.08   Playing by minors prohibited
   
110.09   Distributor's report
   
110.10   Machines limited
Sale, Use, and Possession of Tobacco Products
   
110.11   Definitions
   
110.12   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products
   
110.13   Illegal use of tobacco products
Sale of Beer and Intoxicating Liquors
   
110.15   Hours of operation
   
110.16   Music or other entertainment
   
110.17   Notice to be displayed
   
110.18   Purchase of beer or liquor
Fireworks
   
110.20   Definition
   
110.21   Sale prohibited
   
110.22   Purchase and use prohibited
   
110.23   Special permission to use
Sale of Distress Merchandise
   
110.25   Definition
   
110.26   License required
   
110.27   Application for license
   
110.28   Bond required
   
110.29   Investigation of application; grounds for denial of license
   
110.30   Issuance of license; conditions thereof
   
110.31   Revocation of license
   
110.32   Renewal of license
   
110.33   License fee
   
110.34   Exceptions
Regulation of the Emission of Smoke
   
110.40   Definitions
   
110.41   Air pollution nuisances prohibited
   
110.42   Exceeding federal or Ohio air emission limitation prohibited
Tree Surgeons
   
110.50   Definitions
   
110.51   License required
   
110.52   Revocation
   
110.53   Safety-service director
   
110.54   License fee
Bowling Alleys
   
110.60   Bowling alleys
Pool Halls
   
110.65   Pool halls
Regulating Solicitation
   
110.70   Certain soliciting without permission prohibited
   
110.71   License required
   
110.72   Solicitors must be accredited
   
110.73   Application for license
   
110.74   Investigation by safety-service director
   
110.75   License refused
   
110.76   License must be carried at all times
   
110.77   Hours of solicitation
   
110.78   License suspended
Teen Clubs
   
110.80   Definitions
   
110.81   Permit required
   
110.82   Application investigation process
   
110.83   Issuance of a permit
   
110.84   Annual permit fee
   
110.85   Expiration of permit
   
110.86   Suspension of permit
   
110.87   Revocation of permit
   
110.88   Review of permit denial, suspension, or revocation
   
110.89   Transfer of permit
   
110.90   Teen club business employee license
   
110.91   Hours of operation
   
110.92   Admission
   
110.93   Additional operating conditions
   
110.94   Exemptions of certain organizations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupancy permit required to maintain a business occupancy, see §
151.05
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENTS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
110.01 et seq. the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, firm, or corporation which sells, leases,
rents, or otherwise distributes amusement machines within the city.
   (B)   EXHIBITOR. A person, firm, or corporation owning or conducting a place
of business in the city and operating or exhibiting one or more amusement
machines at this place of business.
   (C)   AMUSEMENTMACHINES. Pinball machines, marble machines, bowling
machines, shuffle boards, pool tables, video type arcade machines, and similar
amusement devices operated by the insertion of a coin, disc, or other insertion
piece, and which shall register or may register a score after the insertion of
such coin, disc, or other insertion piece. It shall not include coin-operated
vending machines, music machines, motion picture machines, or the other
machines or devices used bona fide and solely for the vending of service, food,
or merchandise.
('73Code, § 110.01) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
§ 110.02 MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for an exhibitor or other person to exhibit, or have in
his possession an amusement machine which is so constructed as to make
possible, either directly, or by use of an adjustment, the return of cash,
tickets, discs, or other tokens, or certificates of any kind to a player
operating the same, whether or not such tokens have a value of any kind or
authorize further playing or other privileges. Only machines operated
exclusively for the amusement provided by the operation thereof shall be
permitted.
('73Code, § 110.02) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99(A)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of selling,
leasing, renting, operating, or exhibiting amusement machines, without first
obtaining a license so to do and conforming with the regulations and provisions
hereinafter provided.
('73 Code, § 110.03) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99(A)
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses for distributors for amusement machines shall be
obtained at the Cheviot Police Department. Applicants shall file separately as
distributor or exhibitor. Applications shall be in triplicate and shall be
approved by the chief of police. Application forms and licenses to be displayed
on each amusement machine shall be prescribed by the chief of police.
('73 Code, § 110.04) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FEE.
   Each distributor shall pay an annual license fee of $1,500. Each exhibitor
shall pay an annual license fee of $10 for the use of amusement machines on his
premises. Each exhibitor shall further pay an annual fee of $75 for each
amusement machine displayed on his premises. The fee shall be payable on the
first day of January of each year and the fee shall be the same for any portion
of the year in the event the machines are placed in operation subsequent to
January 1, in any year.
('73 Code, § 110.05) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
§ 110.06 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Should any distributor or exhibitor violate or fail to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the mayor to revoke his
license. In case of revocation of an exhibitor’s license, all amusement
machines operated by him on his premises shall be removed from the premises
within 24 hours thereafter. A distributor or exhibitor whose license has been
revoked shall not be eligible to apply or receive a new license for a period of
one year after the revocation. In the event a distributor’s license is revoked,
all amusement machines over which he has control shall be removed from the city
within 24 hours.
('73 Code, § 110.06) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
§ 110.07 INSPECTION.
   All amusement machines and all premises in which the machines are maintained
or exhibited shall be open to inspection by police at all times. If any
amusement machine is used as a gambling device or is otherwise operated
contrary to the provisions of the laws of the State of Ohio or of the
ordinances of the city, such a machine may, upon proof, be seized and destroyed
as in the case of a gaming device.
('73 Code, § 110.07) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99(A)
Cross-reference:
   Gambling offenses,
Ch. 134
§ 110.08 PLAYING BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any exhibitor of one or more amusement machines to
permit the same to be played or used by a person under 18 years of age. This
restriction shall not apply to exhibitors of video arcade type machines.
('73 Code, § 110.08) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99(A)
§ 110.09 DISTRIBUTOR'S REPORT.
   Every distributor shall furnish, prior to the fifth day of January, April,
July, and October of each year, to the chief of police, a duplicate list of all
new contracts for the sale, leasing, or renting of one or more amusement
machines entered into during the preceding quarter with persons doing business
in the city, and giving the names and addresses of the persons and dates of the
contracts. The chief of police shall file one copy in his office and one copy
with the auditor’s office. The police department shall use these quarterly
listings to check the exhibitors to see that the proper fees have been paid and
that the proper license is displayed on each amusement machine as noted. It is
further provided that no licensed amusement machine shall be moved from one
location to another or from one room to another on the same premises, unless
the new location shall be approved by the chief of police and duly noted on the
chief's records.
('73 Code, § 110.09) (Am. Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-
5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99(A)
§ 110.10 MACHINES LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any exhibitor to display at one time more than
eight amusement machines at any one place of business.
(Ord. 1192, passed 4-28-81; Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-5-06)
Penalty, see § 110.99
SALE, USE, AND POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
§ 110.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of §
110.12 through §
110.13:
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a tobacco product.
   SALE or SELL. Delivery, barter, exchange, transfer, gift, or offer thereof,
and each such transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor,
agent, servant, or employee.
   SMOKE. To burn any tobacco product including cigarettes, cigars, tobacco
products in pipes, or other smoking devices or materials.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance which contains tobacco, including cigarettes,
cigars, smoking tobacco, and smokeless tobacco.
   USE OF TOBACCO. To smoke, chew, or retain any substance containing tobacco
in the mouth.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 2-18-97)
§ 110.12 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes or other tobacco products, or any agent, employee, or representative
of a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes
or other tobacco products shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes or other tobacco
products to any person under 18 years of ages;
      (2)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes or other tobacco products
in any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating
that giving, selling, or otherwise distributing cigarettes or other tobacco
products to a person under 18 years of age is prohibited by law.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes or other tobacco
products by or from a vending machine except in the following location:
      (1)   An area either:
         (a)   Within a factory, business, office, or other place not open to
the general public; or
         (b)   To which persons under the age of 18 years are not generally
permitted access;
      (2)   In any other place not identified in division (B)(1) of this
section, upon all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of such person, so that all cigarettes and other tobacco product
purchased from the vending machine will be readily observed by the person who
owns or operates the place or an employee of such person. For the purpose of
this section, a vending machine located in any unmonitored area, including an
unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or outer waiting area, shall not be
considered located within the immediate vicinity, plain view, and control of
the person who owns or operates the place, or an employee of such person.
         (b)   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the place
is closed.
   (C)   As used in this section, VENDING MACHINE has the same meaning as COIN
MACHINE as defined in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes or other tobacco products, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section, then
illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products is a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 2-18-97)
§ 110.13 ILLEGAL USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall purchase, possess, smoke, or
use any tobacco product.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase or otherwise secure any tobacco product.
   (C)   No person under the age of 18 years shall show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining any tobacco product.
   (D)   No person shall furnish any false information or identification as to
the name, age, or other characteristics of any person under the age of 18 years
for the purpose of obtaining or with the intent to obtain in any manner any
tobacco product for a person under the age of 18 years.
   (E)   No person shall solicit any person under the age of 18 years to
purchase or procure in any manner any tobacco product.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section shall be declared to be an unruly child
as defined by R.C. § 2151.022(G).
(Ord. 97-04, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 98-36, passed 8-18-98)
SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUORS
§ 110.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any organization, club, lodge, or society to
serve, give away, sell or offer for sale, or consume on the premises any beer,
wine, liquors, or other intoxicants between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:30
a.m.
   (B)   Hours of business for sale of beer and intoxicating liquors:
      (1)   No beer or malt beverages shall be sold or be permitted to be
consumed upon the premises of a C1, C2, D1, D2, or D4 permit holder between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:30 a.m.
      (2)   No beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold or be permitted to be
consumed on week days on the premises of a D3a or D5 permit holder between the
hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:30 a.m. No sales of intoxicating liquor may be made on
Sundays after 2:30 a.m., except that intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday
under authority of a permit which authorizes Sunday sale.
      (3)   D3 permit holder shall close at 1:00 a.m. to 6:30 a.m. on week days
and all day Sunday after l:00 a.m.
('73 Code, § 110.12)
Penalty, see § 110.99(C)
Statutory reference:
   Liquor control law, R.C. Ch. 4301
   Power of city to regulate taverns, R.C. § 715.53
§ 110.16 MUSIC OR OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a store, restaurant,
or a place of business in which beer, wine, spirituous liquors or other
intoxicants are served, sold, or offered for sale, to operate or cause to be
operated any device producing music or to present any musical or other
entertainment, or other loud noises, including dancing, between the hours of 2:
30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
('73 Code, § 110.13)
Penalty, see § 110.99(C)
§ 110.17 NOTICE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every place in the city where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold for
beverage purposes shall display at all times in a prominent place on the
premises thereof a printed card which shall be issued by the clerk of council
and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE.
   You are subject to a fine up to $____ under the ordinance of the City of
Cheviot, if you order, pay for, share the cost of, purchase or otherwise obtain
any beer or intoxicating liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor. Whoever fails to comply
with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $____ for each offense.
('73 Code, § 110.15; Am.Ord.130, passed 1948)
Penalty, see § 110.99(D)
§ 110.18 PURCHASE OF BEER OR LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years, shall order, pay for, share the
cost of, purchase or otherwise obtain any beer in any place in the city, where
beer is sold.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years who knowingly gives false
information concerning his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor, in any place in Cheviot where
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
charged as being a juvenile delinquent and taken before the Juvenile Court of
Hamilton County, Ohio for prosecution under the juvenile court code of the
State of Ohio.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of, purchase or otherwise obtain any intoxicating liquor, in any place in
Cheviot where intoxicating liquor is sold. Any person violating the provisions
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine as set by ordinance from time to time.
   (D)   Any person under the age of 21 years, who knowingly gives false
information concerning his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining intoxicating liquor in any place in the city where beer or
intoxicating liquor is sold, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person who knowingly furnishes any inaccurate or false information
as to the age of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of, or with
the intent to obtain beer or intoxicating liquor for a person under 21 years of
age, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 130, passed 1948)
FIREWORKS
§ 110.20 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter the following definition shall apply.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
(R.C. § 3743.01(F))
§ 110.21 SALE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall offer for sale at retail or sell at
retail, lend, barter, or give away within the city any fireworks as defined in
§
110.20 except to holders of permits as provided in §
110.23.
('73 Code, § 110.17)
Penalty, see § 110.99(E)
§ 110.22 PURCHASE AND USE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall purchase at retail, use, fire, set off, discharge, set in
motion, or ignite within the limits of the city any fireworks as designated in
§
110.20 except as provided in §
110.23.
('73 Code,§ 110.18)
Penalty, see § 110.99(E)
§ 110.23 SPECIAL PERMISSION TO USE.
   Special permission may be granted to persons, firms, or corporations for the
purchase of fireworks as described in §
110.20 and their use at a public gathering provided an application is filed
with the safety-service director setting forth the name of the applicant and
the time and place of the exhibition. The safety-service director being
satisfied that the applicant will use the fireworks in a public exhibition and
being satisfied that all reasonable precautions will be exercised with regard
to the protection of the lives and property of all persons, may issue a permit,
which shall permit the use of fireworks at the time and place set out in the
application.
('73 Code, § 110.19)
Penalty, see § 110.99
SALE OF DISTRESS MERCHANDISE
§ 110.25 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter the following definition shall apply.
   DISTRESS MERCHANDISE SALE. Any offer to sell to the public, or sale to the
public, of goods, wares, or merchandise on the implied or direct representation
that such sale is in anticipation of the termination of a business at its
present location or that the sale is being held other than in the ordinary
course of business. Without limiting the generality of the above, distress
merchandise sales shall include any sale advertised either specifically or in
substance to be a FIRE SALE, SMOKE AND WATER DAMAGE SALE, ADJUSTMENT SALE,
CREDITOR'S SALE, TRUSTEE'S SALE, BANKRUPT SALE, SAVE US FROM BANKRUPTCY SALE,
INSOLVENT SALE, INSURANCE SALVAGE SALE, MORTGAGE SALE, ASSIGNEE'S SALE,
ADJUSTER'S SALE, MUST VACATE SALE, QUITTING BUSINESS SALE, RECEIVER'S SALE,
LOSS OF LEASE SALE, FORCED OUT OF BUSINESS SALE, or REMOVAL SALE.  
('73 Code, § 110.21)
§ 110.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall advertise or conduct a distress merchandise sale without
first having obtained a license to do so in accordance with the provisions of
§§
110.27,
110.28,
110.29, and
110.30.
('73 Code, § 110.21)
Penalty, see § 110.99(F)
§ 110.27 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to conduct a distress merchandise sale shall make
written application to the city treasurer at least 5 days prior to the date on
which the sale is to commence, on forms furnished by the city treasurer and
verified by the applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths. In
cases where, due to circumstances beyond the control of the applicant, other
than economic reverses, application cannot be made 5 days prior to commencement
of the sale, the city treasurer shall waive the 5-day requirement. Each
application shall contain the following information, and such other information
as the city treasurer may deem necessary.
   (A)   The name and address of the owner of the goods, wares, or merchandise
to be sold.
   (B)   A description of the place where the sale is to be held.
   (C)   The nature of the occupancy of the place where the sale is to be held,
whether by lease or otherwise, and the effective date of termination of such
occupancy.
   (D)   A full and complete statement of the facts regarding the distress
merchandise sale, including the reason why the sale is being conducted, the
manner in which the sale shall be conducted, and the commencement and
termination date of the sale.
   (E)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods, wares, and merchandise
to be offered at the sale as disclosed by the applicant's record; or a
statement of both the cost and retail value of the inventory of goods, wares,
and merchandise to be offered at the sale, based on the physical inventory used
for applicant's most recent federal income tax return adjusted for sales,
purchases, and markdowns. Adjustments for sales, purchases, and markdowns shall
be shown on a monthly basis to date of application. In addition, there shall be
shown as separate items in either form of inventory the retail value of all
goods, wares, and merchandise the applicant has on consignment which will be
offered for sale and the cost and retail value of all goods, wares, and
merchandise on back order.
('73 Code, § 110.22)
Penalty, see § 110.99 (F)
§ 110.28 BOND REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued for a distress merchandise sale unless there is
filed with the city treasurer a bond conditioned upon the faithful observance
of all the provisions relating to the sale of distress merchandise and the
indemnifying of any purchaser at the sale who suffers any loss by reason of any
misrepresentation made in connection with the sale, and authorizing actions
thereunder by the city for the violation of any provision of this chapter, and
by any purchaser at the sale for damage or loss suffered by him by reason of
any misrepresentation made in connection with the sale. The amount of the bond
shall be determined as follows: 10% of the first $100,000 of the inventory cost
of all the goods, wares, and merchandise to be offered at the sale; 5% on the
next $400,000; and 2% on the balance. The bond shall be approved as to form by
the city solicitor and as to sufficiency by the safety-service director.
('73 Code, § 110.23)
Penalty, see § 110.99(F)
§ 110.29 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application, the city treasurer shall cause such
investigation as he deems necessary to be made of the facts contained therein.
No license shall be issued if any one or more of the following facts or
circumstances are found to exist:
   (A)   The applicant was granted more than one license hereunder for a "going
out of business" sale within 2 years preceding the date of the filing of the
application.
   (B)   The applicant has heretofore been convicted of violation of this
chapter or has had a license issued to him pursuant to this chapter revoked
within a 5-year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the
application.
   (C)   The inventory includes goods, wares, or merchandise purchased by the
applicant or added to his stock in contemplation of the sale and for the
purpose of selling the same at the sale. For the purpose of this division, any
unusual addition to the stock of such goods, wares, and merchandise made within
60 days prior to the filing of the application shall be prima facie evidence
that the addition was made in contemplation of the sale and for the purpose of
selling the same at the sale.
   (D)   The applicant, in the ticketing of the goods, wares, and merchandise
to be offered at the sale, has misrepresented the original retail price or
value thereof.
   (E)   Any representation made in the application is false.
('73 Code, § 110.24)
§ 110.30 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONDITIONS THEREOF.
   When it appears to the city treasurer that all the statements in the
application are true, and that the proposed sale is of the character
represented therein, that the application is in full compliance with the terms
and conditions of this chapter, and that the required license fee has been paid
and the required bond filed, the city treasurer shall issue a license to the
applicant authorizing the applicant to advertise and conduct the sale as
described in the application, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The sale shall be held at the place named in the application, and by
the particular licensee for a period of not more than 30 consecutive calendar
days (Sundays and legal holidays excluded), next following the date specified
in the license.
   (B)   Only the goods, wares, and merchandise included in the inventory
attached to the application shall be sold at the sale.
   (C)   Upon the commencement of the sale and for its duration, the license
issued hereunder shall be prominently displayed in the place of sale by the
licensee.
   (D)   The licensee shall keep suitable books during the sale, at the
location at which the sale is conducted, in which shall be made daily entries
showing:
      (1)   Dollar amount of retail sales;
      (2)   Dollar amount of markdowns. (Without limiting the meaning of the
term MARKDOWN, the difference between retail and wholesale price of goods
wholesaled by licensee shall be considered a markdown);
      (3)   Dollar amount, both retail and cost prices, of goods on back order
received;
      (4)   Dollar amount of wholesale sales.
   (E)   Copies of such daily entries shall be sent to the city treasurer
weekly, and all books of the licensee shall be open for inspection by the city
treasurer or his duly authorized representatives during business hours.
   (F)   The filing of an application for a license, the contents of the
application, and the issuance of a license shall be confidential information
and no disclosure thereof shall be made except such as may be necessary in the
administration of the provisions of this chapter; however, any disclosure may
be made with the consent of the applicant and the filing of an application, and
the issuance of a license shall not be considered confidential after public
notice has been given of the proposed sale. Disclosures made contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalty provided.
('73 Code, § 110.25)
Penalty, see § 110.99(F)
§ 110.31 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The city treasurer shall revoke any license, if he shall find that the
licensee has:
   (A)   Violated the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Made any material misstatement in his application.
   (C)   Failed to include in the inventory required by the provisions of §
110.27 all the goods, wares, or merchandise being offered for sale.
   (D)   Offered or permitted to be offered at the sale any goods, wares, or
merchandise not included in the inventory attached to the application.
   (E)   Failed to keep suitable records of the sale.
   (F)   Made or permitted to be made any false or misleading statements or
representations in advertising the sale, or in displaying, ticketing, or
pricing goods, wares, or merchandise offered for sale.
('73 Code, § 110.26)
§ 110.32 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The city treasurer shall upon application therefor renew a license issued
under the provisions of this chapter for one period of 30 days (Sundays and
legal holidays excluded), if the licensee has not sold all the goods listed on
the inventory submitted with the original application. Such fact shall be sworn
to by the applicant in the appropriate place on the application for renewal of
the license. Only such goods as were listed on the original inventory filed
with the application and not previously sold may be sold during the renewal
period. The fee for the renewal of a license shall be $10.
('73 Code, § 110.27)
§ 110.33 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for licenses shall be $25, or 1/4 of 1% of the cost inventory value
of the goods, wares, and merchandise to be sold at the sale, whichever is the
greater amount.
('73 Code, § 110.28)
§ 110.34 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sale conducted by a
public officer as part of his official duties, or to any sale an accounting of
which must be made to a court of law, or to any sale conducted pursuant to an
order of a court of law.
('73 Code, § 110.29)
REGULATION OF THE EMISSION OF SMOKE
§ 110.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)    AIR CONTAMINANT. Particulate matter, dust, fumes, gas, mist, smoke,
vapor, odorous substances, or any combination thereof.
   (B)    AIR CONTAMINANT SOURCE. Each separate operation or activity that
results or may result in the emission of any air contaminant.
   (C)    AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the ambient air of one or more air
contaminants or any combination thereof in sufficient quantity and of such
characteristics and duration as is or may be injurious to human health or
welfare, plant or animal life, or property, or unreasonably interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   (D)    AMBIENT AIR. That portion of the atmosphere outside of buildings and
other enclosures, stacks, or ducts that surround human, plant, or animal life,
or property.
   (E)    EMIT or EMISSION. The release either directly or indirectly into the
ambient air of an air contaminant.
   (F)    EMISSION LIMITATION and EMISSION STANDARD. A requirement that limits
the quantity, rate, or concentration of emissions of air contaminants,
including any requirement relating to the operation or maintenance of an air
contaminant source.
(Ord. 98-44, passed 12-15-98)
§ 110.41 AIR POLLUTION NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The emission or escape into the open air from any stationary source or
stationary sources whatsoever, of smoke, ashes, dust, grime, acids, fumes,
gases, vapors, odors, or any other substances or combination of substances, in
such manner or in such amounts as to endanger the health, safety, or welfare of
the public, cause unreasonable injury or damage to property, or substantially
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life, health, or safety, is hereby
found and declared to be a public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person
to cause, permit, or maintain any such public nuisance.
(Ord. 98-44, passed 12-15-98)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.42 EXCEEDING FEDERAL OR OHIO AIR EMISSION LIMITATION PROHIBITED.
   An air emission which exceeds or violates any enforceable and applicable
federal or Ohio air emission standard or limitation, or any other enforceable
and applicable federal or Ohio standard or requirement pertaining to air
pollution abatement or control, including but not limited to the limitation,
standards, or requirements established under the Federal Clean Air Act as
amended, R.C. Chapter 3704 as amended, and regulations adopted and promulgated
thereunder, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 98-44, passed 12-15-98)
Penalty, see § 110.99
TREE SURGEONS
§ 110.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter a TREE SURGEON shall be deemed to be any
person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of pruning, trimming,
topping, or removing trees or any part of trees.
('73 Code, § 110.35)
§ 110.51 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of being a tree surgeon in the city
without previously obtaining a permit from the chief of police.
('73 Code, § 110.37)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.52 REVOCATION.
   All permits, issued under the authority of this chapter, shall be subject to
revocation at all times.
('73 Code, § 110.38)
§ 110.53 SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The city safety-service director shall promulgate a complete set of
rules and regulations describing in detail the procedure to be observed by any
such licensee. He shall have the authority to change such rules and regulations
and to revise the same whenever in his judgment the interest of the city
requires such change or revision.
('73 Code, § 110.39)
   (B)   The safety-service director is hereby authorized, with direction from
the appointed Tree Commission, to promulgate a community forestry work plan to
determine public policies for planting, maintenance and removal of public trees
and shrubs.
   (C)   The safety-service director shall have the authority to change such
rules and regulations and to revise said regulations and rules whenever in his
judgment the interest of the city requires such change or revision.
(Ord. 95-48, passed 11-15-95)
§ 110.54 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a tree surgeon shall be $60 unless
application is made after July 1 of the current year, in which event it shall
be $30 for the remaining period of that year.
   (B)   As a condition to the issuance of the tree surgeon license, the
licensee shall be required to sign a statement guaranteeing that he will
dispose of all trees, tree trunks, tree limbs, tree branches, bark, leaves, or
other debris resulting from any operation conducted in the city.
('73Code, § 110.40) (Am. Ord. 06-34, passed 12-5-06)
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 110.60 BOWLING ALLEYS.
   (A)   The owner, lessee, or operator of any bowling alley in the city shall
be subject to an annual license fee of $15 per lane.
   (B)   Application for licenses for operation of a bowling alley shall be
made with the safety-service director. License fees shall be payable January
1st.
('73 Code, § 110.44) (Am. Ord. 06-35, passed 12-19-06)
POOL HALLS
§ 110.65 POOL HALLS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or operator of a pool parlor, where pool or billiard
tables are kept for the use of public patrons, shall be subject to an annual
license fee of $75 per table.
      (2)   If a pool parlor keeps more than four pool or billiard tables for
the use of public patrons, the owner or operator shall be subject to an annual
license fee of $500, in addition to the $75 per table license fee described in
subdivision (A)(1) above.
   (B)   In such pool halls, all employees and persons using pool tables must
be at least 21 years of age, unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or
adult.
   (C)   No license or renewal thereof shall be granted by the Safety-Service
Director to any person unless the person be a citizen of the United States, be
morally responsible, and shall never have been convicted of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude or of a felony. No license shall be granted or
renewed if a member of the applicant’s immediate family has been convicted of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or of a felony, if that immediate family
member participates in the operation of the pool hall.
   (D)   License fees shall be payable January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 95-14, passed 3-7-95; Am. Ord. 97-5, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord. 06-34,
passed 12-5-06) ('73 Code, § 110.45)
REGULATING SOLICITATION
§ 110.70 CERTAIN SOLICITING WITHOUT PERMISSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Commercial solicitation without prior appointment or permission from
the occupant of the dwelling, or without having been requested or invited to do
so by the occupant of a dwelling, or without complying with other provisions of
§§
110.70 through
110.78, is prohibited.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION as used in this section, means the practice of
going in and upon private property to call at dwellings in the city by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, transient vendors of
service, and transient photograph solicitors, and all other persons calling
with the intention of influencing the occupants of the dwellings to purchase
any article or with the intention of influencing the occupant to take or not to
take action for commercial purposes.
   (C)   Commercial solicitation excludes:
      (1)   Persons advocating religious issues;
      (2)   Persons advocating political candidates or issues;
      (3)   Persons advocating issues for which no money is solicited;
      (4)   Persons under the age of 18 participating in fund-raising
activities on behalf of a religious or civic organization.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74; Am. Ord. 02-25, passed 9-3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate transient solicitors, R.C. § 715.64
§ 110.71 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring or intending to make calls on the residents of the city
for purposes set out in §
110.70, without invitation or permission from such residents or occupants,
shall first make written application to the safety-service director of the city
for a license.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74)
§ 110.72 SOLICITORS MUST BE ACCREDITED.
   Any persons desiring or intending to make commercial calls on the residents
of the city for purposes set out in §
110.70, shall be accredited representatives of bona fide, lawful, business
organizations.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74; Am. Ord. 01-36, passed 12-5-01; Am. Ord. 02-25,
passed 9-3-02)
§ 110.73 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for permission to make such calls shall be in writing,
stating:
      (1)   The purpose of the intended call or calls;
      (2)   The names, addresses, and other identification of all persons who
will be in charge of, and of all persons who will be making the calls;
      (3)   An outline of the method to be used in making the calls;
      (4)   The license numbers of all vehicles, if any, to be used in
conveying the callers;
      (5)   The area and location of the dwellings to be called upon;
      (6)   The time or times when such calls will be made; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be required by the safety-service
director or by his duly authorized agents or representatives, concerning the
applicant, the organization, or the nature and purpose of the calls.
   (B)   The safety-service director shall cause a criminal background check to
be conducted on each person listed on the application.
   (C)   Licenses shall be issued for a period of 30 days from the date of
issuance but may be revoked by the safety-service director at any time provided
herein. A charge of $150 shall be made for each person listed on the
application. Payment must be made before the license is issued. Renewals of the
license or licenses may be for an additional 30 days with payment of an
additional $150 per person.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74; Am. Ord. 13-9, passed 5-22-13)
§ 110.74 INVESTIGATION BY SAFETY-SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The safety-service director may call upon the Cheviot Police Department to
make such investigation of applicants as he may deem necessary, and may call
upon any other agency or make any other investigation which he may deem proper
or necessary, before issuing licenses.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74)
§ 110.75 LICENSE REFUSED.
   (A)   The safety-service director may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   The conviction of the applicant for a license of a violation under
§§
110.70 through
110.78 within 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (2)   The revocation of a prior license under §§
110.70 through
110.78 within 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the application; or
the revocation of any other license issued by the United States, the State of
Ohio, any other state, or any other municipality within the United States,
based upon or involving fraud, misrepresentation, or embezzlement, and within 2
years immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (3)   The applicant for a license is under suspension under §§
110.70 through
110.78;
      (4)   The conviction of the applicant of a violation under any statute of
the United States, the State of Ohio, or any other state, or under any
ordinance of the city or any other municipality within the United States, which
violation involved fraud, misrepresentation, or embezzlement, and which
conviction occurred within 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the
application;
      (5)   The failure or refusal of the applicant to complete any part or all
of the application form, or for submitting false or inaccurate information on
the application form;
      (6)   The activities proposed to be conducted by the applicant are
unlawful under the ordinances of the city or the laws of the United States or
the State of Ohio;
      (7)   Conviction within 2 years of the application of a crime involving
force and violence.
      (8)   The firm, company, or organization is not bona fide.
   (B)   The safety-service director shall give notice of the refusal to issue
the license to the applicant. The applicant may appeal the refusal to grant a
license to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the clerk
of council within 10 days after the refusal to issue the license. The appeal
shall state briefly the ground of appeal. The applicant may appeal before
council in person or by attorney. The decision of council shall be final.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74)
§ 110.76 LICENSE MUST BE CARRIED AT ALL TIMES.
   Persons receiving such license shall be required to carry the license with
them at all times when making calls on residents of the city, and shall display
the license to the residents or occupants when requested to do so.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74)
§ 110.77 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   All solicitation, in which a call is made upon private property at dwellings
in the city, which is not subject to a permit requirement, may be made only
during daylight hours. For purposes of this section, “daylight hours” shall be
defined as sunrise to 15 minutes past sunset. The daily times for sunrise and
sunset shall be as published in the Cincinnati Enquirer, or other major
newspaper published in the Greater Cincinnati area. All commercial
solicitation, for which a permit is required, shall be conducted between 9:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting
calls to be made during prohibited hours if advanced permission has been
obtained from a resident by the person making the call.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74; Am. Ord. 01-36, passed 12-5-01; Am. Ord. 02-25,
passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 13-9, passed 5-22-13)
§ 110.78 LICENSE SUSPENDED.
   (A)   The safety-service director may suspend any license for the balance of
the 30-day period for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The use of any fraud, misrepresentation, trick, or deception in
making calls;
      (2)   The refusal of the licensee to exhibit the license issued under §§
110.70 through
110.78 to any official or police officer of the city or to any resident or
occupant upon request;
      (3)   The representation upon the application form, or otherwise, that
the licensee is an employee, agent, or representative of any person which the
licensee does not, in fact, represent;
      (4)   The refusal or failure of the licensee to leave the property or
premises of others when requested to leave by the owner or occupant thereof;
      (5)   The making of any false statement or misrepresentation by the
licensee to gain entrance to any building or structure within the city;
      (6)   The use of any false or fraudulent statement, whether written or
oral, or any misrepresentation concerning the price, terms of payment, quality,
quantity, or delivery of personal property, goods, wares, merchandise, or
services;
      (7)   Violation of any other provisions of this ordinance.
   (B)   Such licensee, whose license has been suspended, may appeal to council
and upon written notice to the clerk of council, may appear in person or by
attorney at the next meeting of council. The decision of council shall be
final.
(Ord. 966, passed 12-10-74)
TEEN CLUBS
§ 110.80 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who works in or for a teen club business, regardless of
whether that person is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the
operator of the business and whether or not the person is determined to be an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. The term employee does
not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of
the premises or its equipment, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   PERMITTEE OR LICENSEE. Any person in whose name a permit or license to
operate a teen club business has been issued, as well as the individual listed
as an applicant on the application for a permit or license.
   TEEN CLUB. All buildings and places of assembly where the intended occupancy
on any given occasion is either overwhelmingly or exclusively persons 13 years
of age and up to but not including 21 years of age, unaccompanied by an adult
parent or guardian shall constitute a TEEN CLUB. TEEN CLUB shall include, but
not be limited to, teen night clubs, teen dance clubs, and teen entertainment
establishments, even if the teen events are only occasional events at a
facility that on other days or occasions promotes adult or other events.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.81 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No teen club business shall be permitted to operate without a valid
teen club business permit by the city. Operation of such a business without a
permit is prohibited and shall result in a fine of $500 for a first offense,
and fines of $1,000 for every offense thereafter.
   (B)   The Safety-Service Director, or his or her designee, shall be
responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling permits for proposed or existing teen club businesses. To be
approved, applications must comply with all requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Applications must be made on a form provided by the city. Applicants
must provide an original and two copies of a sworn application which must
contain the following information and documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual's legal name, aliases, Social
Security number, and proof of age over 18;
         (b)   A partnership, the complete name and tax identification number
for the partnership, the partners' names, and a copy of the partnership
agreement; and
         (c)   A corporation, its complete name, date and place of
incorporation, tax identification number, the names of all officers, directors,
and stockholders owning 5% or more of all outstanding stock, the name and
address of its registered agent, and evidence of good standing under Ohio law.
      (2)   The name of the teen club business if different from the
applicant's name, and any required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any other listed individual has had a teen
club business permit revoked, suspended, or denied, and the name of the
business, the city or county of occurrence, and the date on which the permit
was suspended, revoked, or denied within the last five years.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or other listed individuals hold any other
teen club business permits and the names and locations of all other such
businesses.
      (5)   The proposed event or teen club location, including a legal
description of the property, street address, and telephone number.
      (6)   The applicant's business and residential addresses and telephone
numbers. If the applicant has been at his current address for less than five
years, then all business and residential addresses of the applicant for five
years prior to the date of the application must be included.
      (7)   The applicant's tax identification number and written proof of age
in the form of a picture identification card issued by a governmental agency.
      (8)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration and total floor space
of the premises, drawn to scale.
      (9)   A lighting plan for all parking areas and all entrances and exits
of the teen club designed to provide a safe and secure environment.
      (10)   A maximum occupancy statement.
      (11)   A security plan demonstrating that the teen club has met all city
and state building and fire code requirements, and including the number and
location of all access doors, including emergency exits.
      (12)   A sound-proofing plan that demonstrates that noise or vibrations
shall not be heard or felt beyond the property line of any teen club.
      (13)   The application, along with a $500 non-refundable application fee,
must be signed by the individual applicant, and each person who has at least a
5% interest in the business. All applicants are under a continuing duty to
promptly update their application information. Failure to do so within 30 days
of the date of a change in the application information shall be grounds for a
permit suspension or revocation. If the Safety-Service Director learns that an
applicant improperly completed the permit application, the Safety-Service
Director shall promptly notify the applicant and allow ten days for
corrections.
   (D)   Prior to obtaining a permit to operate a teen club business, the
applicant shall certify that the proposed location complies with the location
requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   By filing an application, the applicant shall be deemed to have
consented to the provisions of the city's teen club laws and to the
investigation of the application by the Safety-Service Director and his or her
designees. Such investigation shall include, but not be limited to, a criminal
background check of all owners and operators listed on the application.
   (F)   The applicant is required to provide to the city the names of all
employees required to be licensed under §
110.90. This obligation continues even after a permit is granted or renewed.
Any new employee required to obtain a license under the city's teen club laws
must be reported to the city no later than 14 days after the employee is hired.
   (G)   A teen club business permit may be renewed annually upon written
application, subject to the payment of a $300 renewal fee, and a finding that
the permit holder is still in conformance with the permit requirements.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.82 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the city shall send
photocopies of the application to the city departments responsible for the
enforcement of health, fire, building, and zoning codes and laws. Each
department shall investigate the application for compliance with its respective
policies and codes and approve or disapprove the application within 20 days of
the receipt of the application by the city. A department shall disapprove an
application if it finds that the business would be in violation of a specific
provision of a statute, code, resolution, regulation, or other law in effect in
the city.
   (B)   An application shall be disapproved if a criminal background check
reveals that any owner, operator, partner, principal shareholder, permittee,
licensee, or employee has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the
following :
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2919.22 or 2919.24, any crime of violence as
defined in the Ohio Revised Code, any violation of R.C. Chapter 2907, or any
violation of R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of this state, any
political subdivision of this state, any other state, or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of the offenses or violations described in
division (B)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.83 ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   An application shall be granted or denied within 30 days from the date
of the city's receipt of a completed application except as provided under
division (D) of this section.
   (B)   The permit shall state on its face the name of the person or persons
to whom it is granted, the address of the teen club business, and the permit
expiration date. The permit shall be posted at all times in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the teen club business.
   (C)   An application may be denied for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in §
110.90.
      (2)   An applicant is overdue on the filing or any tax return, or overdue
on the payment of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed by any
governmental agency in relation to a teen club business.
      (3)   An applicant's permit to operate a teen club business has been
denied or revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (4)   The premises to be used are not in compliance with city or county
health, fire, or building codes as determined by the governmental agency
responsible such compliance.
      (5)   An applicant has failed to provide information as requested in the
application or has supplied false information.
      (6)   The application fee or renewal fee has not been paid.
      (7)   To grant the application would violate a statute, ordinance,
resolution, or court order.
      (8)   The applicant has a teen club permit which has been suspended or
revoked.
      (9)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required by the teen club laws of the city.
      (10)   Any owner, operator, licensee, or permittee has failed to pass the
criminal background check as set forth in §
110.82.
      (11)   The business for which a permit is sought, or for which renewal of
a permit is sought, has been declared a nuisance as defined under the Ohio
Revised Code or under the ordinances of Cheviot.
      (12)   If, after an investigation is conducted by the police, it is
determined that the issuance of the permit will disturb the peace and quiet of
the surrounding neighborhood.
   (D)   As set forth in §
110.82, all city departments responsible for the enforcement of health, fire,
building, and zoning codes, and laws shall determine if the proposed business
is in compliance with its area of regulation within 20 days of receipt of a
completed application. If the applicant requests additional time to comply with
a statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect in the city, a
one time extension of an additional 30 days may be given for the city to grant
or deny the application. The Safety-Service Director or his or her designee and
the police officers of the city shall at all times have access to any premises
for which a permit for a teen club has been issued.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.84 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual renewal fee for a teen club business permit is $300.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.85 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed by making an application under §
110.81 at least 30 days before the expiration date. If a renewal is denied,
another renewal shall not be issued for at least one year from the date of the
denial. If the basis for denial is delinquency in fees or taxes or an
incomplete or false application, and the original defect has been corrected,
and at least 90 days have elapsed from the date the denial became final, a
renewal may be granted.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.86 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to operate a teen club business may be suspended for a period not
to exceed 30 days if a permittee, or an employee of a permittee, intentionally
violates or is not in compliance with the teen club laws of the city; works at
the teen club business while under the influence of alcohol or drugs of abuse;
fails to correct a violation of a building, fire, health, or zoning code within
seven days after notification of such violation; transfers the teen club
business permit to another in violation of the teen club laws of the city; or
employs a person without a valid license as required by §
110.90.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.87 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit to operate a teen club business shall be revoked upon a
determination that a permit is to be suspended for a second time within a 12
month period, or that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information on the permit application
which enhanced the permittee's opportunity to obtain a permit;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed the possession, sale, or use of a controlled
substance or alcohol on the premises;
      (3)   Knowingly operated the business while under permit suspension;
      (4)   Has been convicted of a tax violation for taxes or fees related to
a teen club business; or
      (5)   Knowingly operated the business in violation of the additional
operating conditions of §
110.93.
   (B)   Any permit revocation shall be for a period of one year, during which
time a permittee shall not receive any other permits for any other teen club
business.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.88 REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   An applicant or permittee may seek review within 30 days of the denial of an
application, denial of a renewal of an application, or the suspension or
revocation of a permit before the City Council. If the applicant properly
appeals to the Council, the denial will continue during the pendency of the
appeal.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.89 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a teen club business at any place other
than the address designated in the application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer a permit to another person unless that
person:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit upon satisfactory completion of
an application; and
      (2)   Pays a transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee.
   (C)   A permit may not be transferred after the permittee has been notified
that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against
the permittee.
   (D)   A permit shall not be transferred to another location.
   (E)   Any transfer attempted in violation of the teen club laws of the city
will result in the revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.90 TEEN CLUB BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   All employees of a teen club business are required to obtain a teen
club business employee license and shall submit to a criminal background check
as set forth in §
110.82, and shall pay a permit fee of $25 to cover reasonable administrative
costs. In addition, at the discretion of the Police Chief, employees may be
required to submit to a BCI, or FBI, fingerprint check, the cost of which shall
be borne by the employee.
   (B)   On a form provided by the city, the applicant shall provide his or her
name, current residence and business addresses and telephone numbers, proof of
minimum age of 18 years in the form of a state driver's license or other form
of picture identification issued by a governmental agency, and a color
photograph and fingerprints on a form provided by the Police Department.
   (C)   The application review shall be completed within ten days of filing.
If requested, a temporary license may be issued pending review of the
application, if the prior history of the applicant demonstrates responsible use
under the teen club laws of the city and the laws of the state.
   (D)   The employee license shall be issued unless the city finds that:
      (1)   The employee applicant knowingly made a false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of a material fact;
      (2)   The employee applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The employee applicant has had an employee license revoked within
two years of the date of the current application; or
      (4)   The employee applicant fails to meet the requirements of the
criminal background check as set forth in §
110.82.
   (E)   An employee license may be renewed annually upon written application
subject to the payment of a $10 renewal fee and a finding that the employee
applicant is still in conformance with all application requirements.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.91 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All teen clubs allowing persons under the age of 14 may operate no
later than 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   All teen clubs allowing only persons 14 years of age and older may
operate no later than 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.92 ADMISSION.
   (A)   No readmission of any person shall be allowed without the payment of
the full admission fee required of all patrons entering the club.
   (B)   Parents or guardians and on-duty police officers shall be allowed to
enter the club during all hours of operation.
   (C)   Parents or guardians and on duty police officers shall not be subject
to the payment of any admission fee.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.93 ADDITIONAL OPERATING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The permittee shall notify the Police Chief of the maximum number of
teens that will be permitted to occupy the premises at any time during any
event. The notification shall be required to be submitted to the Police Chief
at least seven days prior to the event. The permittee shall then provide at
least four off-duty police officers for the first 200 teens permitted to
attend, and one additional officer for every additional 100 teens that will be
permitted to attend. Additional off-duty officers shall be hired if so directed
by the Police Chief or his or her designated officer, as the circumstances
warrant or as deemed necessary based upon prior history.
   (B)   No noise or vibrations shall be heard or felt beyond the property line
of any teen club, and there shall be no speaker, sound system, or other device
emitting noise or vibration on the exterior of the building.
   (C)   Teen clubs shall not be allowed within 500 feet of any sexually
oriented business, as defined by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   Teen clubs shall not be allowed within 500 feet of any residential
structure.
   (E)   Teen clubs shall not be allowed within 500 feet of any establishment
selling alcohol.
   (F)   Firearms shall not be permitted on the premises except for police and
certified security personnel hired by the sponsor of the event.
   (G)   Alcohol consumption shall not be permitted on the premises during any
teen event.
   (H)   Although alcohol may be stored on the premises during a teen event, it
must be secured so that it is not accessible by anyone during the event.
   (I)   All rules shall be clearly posted for all patrons on the premises.
   (J)   Nothing in this section relieves the permittee from compliance with
any other ordinance of the city.
   (K)   Additional security measures, including, but not limited to ending
times, security requirements, notice to potentially affected neighborhoods,
parking and pickup areas, and identification of attendees, may be instituted by
the Safety-Service Director to ensure the safety and welfare of the
participants where prior violations by the applicant in the city or any other
jurisdiction justify that additional security measures be taken.
   (L)   Permittee shall be obligated to take affirmative steps to prevent
loitering and smoking on the premises of persons not within the confines of the
teen club's building.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.94 EXEMPTIONS OF CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.
   The following shall not be subject to the provisions of the teen club laws:
   (A)   Non-profit organizations such as churches and educational
institutions;
   (B)   Fraternal orders or societies conducting dances where admission is
restricted to members of such clubs, orders, or societies and families of
members, whether held on their own premises or in a hall leased or donated for
such purpose; and
   (C)   Places of organized sporting events where teen activities are sport
related, including bowling lanes, basketball leagues, and baseball leagues.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
110.02,
110.03,
110.07,
110.08,
110.09, and
110.10 shall be fined not more than $100 or shall be prohibited from
exhibiting, using, or permitting to be used pinball machines for a period not
to exceed one year, or both.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
110.11,
110.60, and
110.65 shall be fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
110.15 and
110.16 shall be fined, for the first offense not less than $10 or more than
$200, and for the second offense not less than $25 or more than $500.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
110.17 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (E)   Whoever violates §§
110.21,
110.22, or
110.23 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates §§
110.26,
110.27,
110.28, and
110.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (G)   Whoever violates §§
110.41 or
110.42 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
   (H)   Whoever violates §
110.51 shall be fined for the first offense not less than $10 nor more than
$300; for the second offense not less than $50 nor more than $300; for a third
or subsequent offense not less than $100 nor more than $500, or imprisoned in
the workhouse for a period of not more than 30 days, or both.
   (I)   Any violation of any provision of §§
110.70 through
110.78 shall, upon conviction, be punishable as a minor misdemeanor for a first
offense. Any subsequent violation shall, upon conviction, be punishable as a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 98-34, passed 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 98-44, passed 12-15-98)
CHAPTER 111: ROOMING HOUSES; RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
Rooming Houses
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Renewal of license
   
111.05   License fee
   
111.06   Revocation of license
   
111.07   Transference of license
   
111.08   Guest register required
   
111.09   Letting rooms to persons of opposite sex
   
111.10   Register to be open for inspection by city officers
   
111.11   Copy of license to be posted
Rental Property
   
111.20   Notification of tenant changes
Chronic Nuisance
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   Notification that premises may be a chronic nuisance
   
111.32   Determination that premises are a chronic nuisance
   
111.33   Citations for multiple nuisance activities; criminal and civil
penalties
   
111.34   Appeals
   
111.35   Liens
   
111.36   Rules and regulations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
ROOMING HOUSES
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)    DWELLING. A building occupied as a place of abode by one or more
persons.
   (B)    HOTEL. Any dwelling, licensed as such by the state fire marshal and
kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a place
where food is served and sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests, in which 6 or more rooms are used for the accommodations of
such guests, and having one or more dining rooms directly accessible from
within the dwelling.
   (C)    ROOMER. Any person, who is not a member of the family of, nor related
by blood, marriage, or legal adoption to the operator of a rooming house, to
whom space is provided for sleeping or boarding purposes for pay.
   (D)    ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling occupied by 3 or more roomers or in which 3
or more rooms are kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public
to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay; provided that
HOTELS as herein defined, and any dwelling in which 1 or 2 rooms within
individual dwelling units are let out by the occupants of the units, shall not
be construed to be rooming houses for purposes of this chapter.
('73 Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated a rooming house without
having a license or a temporary certificate to do so.
('73 Code, § 111.02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of every existing rooming house shall apply for a rooming
house license issued by the safety-service director in the name of the operator
and for the specific dwelling within which the rooming house is contained.
   (B)   The operator of every new rooming house must obtain a license before
beginning operation. Application shall be made to the safety-service director,
as provided; and the application will be acted upon within 30 days of the date
of filing.
   (C)   The safety-service director shall furnish duplicate application forms
on which the operator shall indicate:
      (1)   The address of the building in which the rooming house is operated;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the building;
      (3)   The name and address of the operator of the rooming house;
      (4)   A statement as to whether or not the operator has ever been
convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   The type of occupancy of the rooming house (all one sex or mixed);
      (6)   The number of rooms to be let out for sleeping purposes;
      (7)   The number and location of the toilets, lavatories, and baths;
      (8)   Such other information as may be necessary to determine that the
use and occupancy of the building is permitted by law.
   (D)   The safety-service director shall issue a no-charge temporary
certificate stating that a license has been applied for and that such license
shall be issued or denied within 90 days or less after the date of the
inspection by the building inspector.
   (E)   A copy of all applications shall be sent to the building inspector,
who shall make an inspection of the building as soon as feasible to determine
whether or not it is in substantial compliance with the building code and in a
safe and sanitary condition. He shall notify the operator of the rooming house
that:
      (1)   The application has been approved and the license shall be obtained
from the safety-service director within 30 days, or the use discontinued; or
      (2)   The rooming house is not in compliance with the law, and in what
respect, and shall order it to be brought into compliance within 90 days from
the date of his original inspection, and license secured, or to cease
operations.
('73 Code, § 111.03)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire one year from the date of issuance and shall be
renewed annually during the 30 days preceding the date of expiration.
('73 Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee shall be $5 plus the sum of $.50 for each room to be
let out. All license fees shall be for one year or any part thereof. Failure to
renew a license prior to its date of expiration for a rooming house in actual
operation shall result in the above named fees being doubled.
('73 Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A rooming house license shall be revoked or denied by the safety-service
director upon certification by the building inspector, the board of health, the
fire chief, or the chief of police, of any of the following conditions:
   (A)   Failure to comply with any lawful order to correct violations of laws,
rules, or regulations of the city, or the laws of Ohio concerning safety,
health, morals, or general welfare of the occupants of the rooming house, or
the public in general, within 60 days or within the time stated in the notice,
when the condition to be remedied is so hazardous as to require immediate
attention;
   (B)   Conviction of the operator of any illegal or immoral use of the
building, or any crime involving moral turpitude;
   (C)   The presence of cooking facilities in any designated sleeping room or
in any room not legally constituted as a dwelling unit;
   (D)   The use in common of kitchen facilities by more than one family;
   (E)   Continued or repeated instances of insanitation, or disregard of fire
safety regulations, or inadequate maintenance of the building and/or of its
parts or equipment.
('73 Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be transferable. Any person taking over the operation of a
licensed rooming house shall apply for a new license within 10 days of his
taking over the operation, or be considered delinquent and charged the double
fee. No refunds shall be made to those discontinuing operation or who sell,
transfer, give away, or otherwise dispose of a rooming house to another person.
('73 Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 GUEST REGISTER REQUIRED.
   A guest register shall be maintained at all times and the operator shall
require each person to whom a room is let for occupancy to sign his name and
address in the register prior to his renting or occupying the same. In the case
of husband and wife, one person may sign for both. A parent or guardian may
sign for children in his care. The operator in charge at the time of signing
shall note opposite the name of each guest the room number or numbers of the
room or rooms assigned for occupancy and the time and date of the beginning of
such occupancy. When a guest relinquishes occupancy, the operator in charge
shall note in the register the time and date of leaving. All entries shall be
in ink and shall not be, in any manner, erased, obliterated, or defaced.
('73 Code, § 111.08)
§ 111.09 LETTING ROOMS TO PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   Except in the case of husband and wife, or of children accompanied by a
parent or guardian, no room shall be assigned to 2 person of opposite sex.
('73 Code, § 111.09)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.10 REGISTER TO BE OPEN FOR INSPECTION BY CITY OFFICERS.
   The guest register shall at all times be open for inspection by members of
the police force, the fire department, the board of health, or the building
inspector.
('73 Code, § 111.10)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.11 COPY OF LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   The operator shall at all times keep the license posted in a conspicuous
place in every rooming house. Altering, tampering, or removing the license is
prohibited.
('73 Code, § 111.11)
Penalty, see § 111.99
RENTAL PROPERTY
§ 111.20 NOTIFICATION OF TENANT CHANGES.
   (A)   Beginning July 1, 1993, and thereafter, within 30 days after a new
tenant occupies rental property of any kind within the city, all property
owners of rental property who rent to tenants of apartment, rooms, and the
like, shall file with the Tax Commissioner a report showing the names,
addresses, telephone numbers, if available, social security number, place of
employment of each such tenant who occupies an apartment, a room in a rooms,
etc, within the corporate limits.
   (B)   Beginning July 1, 1993, and thereafter, within 30 days after a tenant
vacates an apartment, room or other rental property located within the city,
the property owner of such vacated rental property shall file with the Tax
Commissioner a report showing the date of vacating from the rental property and
the identifying each tenant, and the forwarding address of each vacating
tenant.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is subject to a penalty
of $25 for each violation.
(Ord. 1585, passed 6-1-93)
CHRONIC NUISANCE
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE. A premises or property that is in violation of §
111.32.
   NUISANCE or NUISANCE ACTIVITY. Any of the following activities, conduct, or
behavior whenever engaged in by premises owners, operators, occupants, or
persons associated with a premises:
      (1)   Assault, aggravated assault, or felonious assault as defined in §§
135.03 or
135.04 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. §§ 2903.11, 2903,12, or
2903.13.
      (2)   Menacing, aggravated menacing, or menacing by stalking as defined
in §§
135.05,
135.06, or
135.061 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. §§ 2903.21, 2903.22, or
2903.211.
      (3)   Inducing panic, making a false alarm, or perpetrating a hoax weapon
of mass destruction as defined in §§
132.08 or
132.09 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. §§ 2917.31, 2917.32, or
2917.33.
      (4)   Disrupting public services as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (5)   Curfew violations as defined in §
93.01 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   Disorderly conduct as defined in §
132.01 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. § 2917.11.
      (7)   Discharging firearms as defined in §
137.08 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances .
      (8)   Drug sale or usage as defined in
Chapter 138 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (9)   Compelling or promoting prostitution, procuring, soliciting, or
loitering to engage in solicitation, or prostitution as defined in §§
133.07,
133.08, or
133.09 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances or R.C. §§ 2907.21 through 2907.25.
      (10)   Loud noises as defined in §§
132.14 and
132.15 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances .
      (11)   Loud, dangerous, or vicious dogs as defined in §§
90.04 or
90.10 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
      (12)   Kidnapping as defined in R.C. § 2905.01.
   OCCUPANT. A person residing in or having use of a premises. The same person
may be owner and occupant.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, company, corporation, or association, including
their employees, agents, or contractors, that controls, operates, or manages a
premises.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, who, alone or jointly
with others, shall be in possession of or have control of any premises or is
listed as the owner of a premises on the records of the Hamilton County
Auditor.
   PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH. Any person who, whenever engaged in a nuisance or
nuisance activity, enters, patronizes, visits; attempts to enter, patronize, or
visit a premises or person present on a premises, including any officer,
director, customer, agent, employee, or independent contractor of a premises
owner.
   PROPERTY OR PREMISES. A platted lot or parcel of land, or plot of land
either occupied or unoccupied by any building or structure equipment, or
property of any kind.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.31 NOTIFICATION THAT PREMISES MAY BE A CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Police Chief or his or her designee may notify a premises owner in
writing that the premises is in danger of becoming a chronic nuisance when
either of the following circumstances has occurred at the premises:
      (1)   When three or more nuisance activities have occurred at the
premises on separate days during a 30 day period; or
      (2)   When, within a one year period, the following number of nuisance
activities has occurred at the premises:
         (a)   Premises with one residential unit   3 nuisance activities
         (b)   Premises with two or three residential units   6 nuisance
activities
         (c)   Premises with four to 19 residential units   14 nuisance
activities
         (d)   Premises with 20 to 39 residential units   18 nuisance
activities
         (e)   Premises with 40 or more residential units   21 nuisance
activities
   (B)   The notice provided for in division (A) above shall be deemed properly
delivered if sent by first class mail to the address for the owner listed on
the records of the Hamilton County Auditor. If the notice is returned as
undeliverable, the notice shall be deemed properly delivered if it is either
posted on the front door of the premises that is the subject of the notice and
order, or if it is delivered in person to the owner. The notice shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises;
      (2)   A description of the nuisance activities that have occurred at the
premises, including the dates of the nuisance activities;
      (3)   A statement that the premises owner shall respond to the Police
Chief or his or her designee within ten days of the date of the owner's receipt
of the notice with a written plan to abate the nuisance activities that is
acceptable to the Police Chief or his or her designee; and
      (4)   A statement that the cost of future enforcement at the premises as
a result of nuisance activities may be billed to the premises owner and could
become a lien against the property if not paid.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.32 DETERMINATION THAT PREMISES ARE A CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief or his or her designee determines that an
additional nuisance activity has occurred at a premises for which a notice has
been issued pursuant to §
111.31, and this nuisance activity occurs more than 13 days after the notice
has been issued, the Police Chief or his or her designee may determine that the
premises is a chronic nuisance and order that the owner abate the nuisance
within 30 days of the owner's receipt of the notice. The Police Chief or his or
her designee may also calculate the cost of enforcement for this and any
subsequent nuisance activities, notify the owner that the owner is being billed
for the cost of this and any subsequent nuisance activities, and bill the owner
for the cost of enforcement.
   (B)   The notice and order provided for in division (A) above shall be
deemed properly delivered if sent by first class mail to the address for the
owner listed on the records of the Hamilton County Auditor. If the notice and
order are returned as undeliverable, the notice and order shall be deemed
properly delivered if they are either posted on the front door of the premises
that is the subject of the notice and order, or if they are delivered in person
to the owner. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises;
      (2)   A description of the nuisance activity or activities that have
occurred at the premises, for which the owner is being billed, including the
dates of the nuisance activity or activities;
      (3)   An order that the nuisance activity be abated; and
      (4)   A statement that the premises owner may appeal the determination
that the owner's premises is a chronic nuisance or may appeal the amount of the
bill as provided in §
111.34.
   (C)   A determination that a premises is a chronic nuisance subject to bills
for the cost of enforcement pursuant to this section and subject to fines or
criminal prosecution pursuant to §
111.33 shall be effective for a two year period beginning with the first
nuisance activity that is the subject of the first bill for enforcement sent to
the premises owner for that specific premises.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.33 CITATIONS FOR MULTIPLE NUISANCE ACTIVITIES; CRIMINAL AND CIVIL
PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whoever violates this subchapter or fails to obey any lawful order
issued by the Police Chief or his or her designee to abate a chronic nuisance
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense and guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the second and subsequent offenses. Each
day's continuation of a violation or failure to comply is a separate offense.
   (B)   As an alternative to criminal prosecution, the Chief of Police or his
or her designee may cite a person who violates any provision of this subchapter
or fails to obey any order to abate a chronic nuisance.
      (1)   Citations for nuisance activities shall be imposed based upon the
number of bills for enforcement sent to a premises owner for a specific
premises within a two year period beginning with the date of the nuisance
activity that is the subject of the first bill for enforcement sent to the
premises owner for that specific premises.
      (2)   Whenever a premises owner has been billed on three or more separate
dates within a two year period beginning with the date of the nuisance activity
that is the subject of the first bill for enforcement sent to the premises
owner for that specific premises, the Police Chief or his or her designee shall
issue a citation to the premises owner as follows:
         (a)   For the fourth bill within a two year period, a citation of $250
shall be imposed;
         (b)   For the fifth bill within a two year period, a citation of $500
shall be imposed;
         (c)   For the sixth bill within a two year period, a citation of $750
shall be imposed; and
         (d)   For each bill after the sixth bill within a two year period, a
citation of $1,000 shall be imposed.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07; Am. Ord. 21-25, passed 1-18-22)
§ 111.34 APPEALS.
   (A)   A premises owner may appeal the determination of the Police Chief or
his or her designee pursuant to §
111.32(A) that a premises is a chronic nuisance or may appeal the amount of the
bill for enforcement related to nuisance activities at the premises pursuant to
§
111.32(B) within 30 days from the date of the notification from the Police
Chief or his or her designee that the premises is a chronic nuisance or within
30 days from the date the bill is issued.
   (B)   An appeal of the determination that a premises is a chronic nuisance
or the amount of the bill for enforcement related to nuisance activities at the
premises must be made in writing and directed to the Chronic Nuisance Reduction
Commander, who shall be appointed or designated by the Police Chief. A written
notification of the Chronic Nuisance Reduction Commander's determination will
be sent within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. No change in the chronic
nuisance status of the premises may be made without going through the written
appeal process.
   (C)   A premises owner may appeal the Chronic Nuisance Reduction Commander's
determination that the premises is a chronic nuisance or the determination
regarding the amount of the bill for the enforcement within 30 days from the
date of the Chronic Nuisance Reduction Commander's determination by requesting
that an administrative hearing be conducted by a hearing panel consisting of
the Mayor, Safety-Service Director, and Law Director. A premises owner may
appeal the issuance of the citation pursuant to §
111.32(C) within 30 days from the date the citation is issued by requesting an
administrative hearing be conducted by the hearing panel. The hearing panel
will issue a written determination on any appeal brought pursuant to §
111.34.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.35 LIENS.
   Bills for enforcement and citations that are not paid will become liens on
the premises to the extent permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.36 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Safety-Service Director shall establish rules and regulations for the
maintenance of information, notification of violations, calculation of bills
for enforcement services, imposition of fines, determination of when calls for
service are counted for purposes of this subchapter, appeals of decisions made,
and all other relevant issues as he or she deems necessary for implementation
of §§
111.30 through
111.36. The rules and regulations and amendments thereto shall be posted in the
hallway of Cheviot City Hall, 30 days prior to their effective date.
(Ord. 07-32, passed 12-4-07)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined,
upon conviction, not less than $25 nor more than $500, and each day's
continuance shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License application and requirements
   
112.04   Location
   
112.05   License fee; transfer and display
   
112.06   Revocation; hearing procedure
   
112.07   Hours of operation
   
112.08   Prohibited conduct
   
112.09   Miscellaneous
   
112.10   Severability
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Gambling, see
Chapter 134
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to the operation of
computerized sweepstakes terminals and internet cafes or establishments
operating such terminals. This chapter shall only apply to the operation of
such terminals that are lawfully operating pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code,
and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to legalize, license, or
authorize any operation of a device that is unlawful to operate pursuant to the
Ohio Revised Code. This chapter shall apply immediately to all devices,
arcades, and internet cafes that commence operation after the date of enactment
of this chapter. All arcades, internet cafes, or establishments in existence at
the time of enactment of this chapter shall come into compliance with all
sections of this chapter no later than 30 days after enactment unless otherwise
stated herein.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter and the policy of the City
of Cheviot to establish standards for licensing and regulation of computerized
sweepstakes devices and the arcades and internet cafes upon which they are
located and operated. This chapter is designed to prevent safety and fire
hazards, prevent disturbances, preserve the peaceful enjoyment of neighboring
establishments and residences, and prevent gambling and other criminal behavior
in the city.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ANYTHING OF VALUE. Cash, cash equivalents, tangible objects, credits to
play, and any other tangibles or intangibles, no matter how slight. ANYTHING OF
VALUE includes playing a game, viewing a video display, hearing an audio
transmission, and reading entries or outcomes from any other kind of device. A
person who gives anything of value for a product or service, whether tangible
or intangible, in any way, directly or indirectly, in association with being
given access to the use of an entertainment device, is deemed to have given
value for the access to the entertainment device.
   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE. Any computer, machine, game, or apparatus
which, upon the insertion of a coin, token, access number, magnetic card, or
similar object, or upon the payment of anything of value, wherein a product or
service may be provided, and may be operated by the public generally for use as
a contest of skill, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a
score, and which provides the user with a chance to win anything of value that
is not de minimus, on a per play basis, or any cash payout or anything that
could be redeemed, directly or indirectly, for any cash payout, and which is
not gambling under state or local laws. Machines designated for use by the
State Lottery Commission are not computerized sweepstakes devices for purposes
of this chapter. DE MINIMUS, as used in this section, shall mean less than $10.
   INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFE. Any premises upon which any computerized
sweepstakes device is located for the use or entertainment of the public,
whether or not such premises have other business purposes of any nature
whatsoever.
   LICENSEE. The person or persons who sign an application for a license
hereunder and to whom such license is issued.
   OPERATOR. Any person or persons having authority to control the premises of
an arcade or internet sweepstakes cafe.
   OWNER. Any person who possesses a pecuniary interest, either directly or
indirectly, of 10% or more in an internet sweepstakes cafe.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall operate or
conduct an internet sweepstakes cafe without first obtaining a license from the
City of Cheviot. Every person, partnership, corporation, organization, or other
entity shall make an application in writing to the city which application shall
set forth:
      (1)   The name under which the business is to be conducted;
      (2)   The location where the business is conducted, with a description of
the premises, including a scaled diagram;
      (3)   The name, home address, and date of birth of any manager,
supervisor, and all other employees;
      (4)   The name, home address, and date of birth of the owner or owners of
the entertainment devices; and
      (5)   The name, home address, date of birth, and principal occupation of
every person with an interest in the business. If the business is conducted by:
         (a)   A sole proprietorship: the name, home address, date of birth,
and principal occupation of that individual.
         (b)   A firm or partnership: the names, home addresses, dates of
birth, and principal occupations of each member of the firm or partnership.
         (c)   A corporation: the names, home addresses, dates of birth, and
principal occupations of all directors, officers and shareholders owning more
than 10% of the outstanding shares.
      (6)   The name, description, model number, and serial number of each
computerized sweepstakes device on the premises and any other device on the
premises that is necessary to the operation of the computerized sweepstakes
device.
      (7)   A list of each separate prize that may be given out and each
separate dollar amount that may be given; and the odds of winning any offered
prize or dollar amount awarded for the participation in any game, activity,
program, scheme or play, use or participation in any way in a computerized
sweepstakes device or participating in any other activity or promotion in the
internet sweepstakes cafe, whether or not the determination of the giving of
the thing of value or the delivery of the thing of value occurs totally within
the confines of the premises or requires some event, occurrence or happening at
another location.
      (8)   The name and address of any and all persons, businesses, or
organizations that provide games, computer software, equipment, or services or
operate devices linked to the computerized sweepstakes devices or to devices
necessary to operate the entertainment devices, whether any such provisions are
sold, leased, or licensed.
      (9)   The tax account number of the business from the City of Cheviot Tax
Department.
      (10)   Whether any owner or operator owns or operates, or has owned or
operated within the five years preceding the application, another internet
sweepstakes cafe and the locations of all such cafes.
   (B)   The person, partnership, corporation, or other entity operating or
conducting the business shall have a continuing duty to inform the City of
Cheviot as to changes in the information required in this section. No person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity shall operate or conduct an internet
sweepstakes cafe at any time unless the information on file with the city is
current and accurately reports the licensing information at the time of
operation.
   (C)   If an application is not approved, the City of Cheviot shall notify
the applicant in writing, with the reason for rejection.
   (D)   The City of Cheviot shall not issue a license to any person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity if any of the persons with an
interest in the business or if any of the employees of the business have been
convicted of a violation of a federal or state statute or of any local
ordinance pertaining to gambling, firearms, liquor sales, a state lottery, or
other crime of moral turpitude within five years preceding the application. All
owners, employees and persons having an interest in the business, as set forth
in division (A)(5) above, shall consent to a criminal history check by the
city.
   (E)   As a prerequisite to the issuance of such license, an inspection shall
be made of the premises by the fire department, and the premises must be in
compliance with all applicable fire regulations. The internet sweepstakes cafe
shall be open to inspection and viewing of operations by law enforcement
officers and fire department personnel at all times of operation. No operator
shall fail to immediately permit entry to any such city officials.
   (F)   Failure to register or pay a license fee for a computerized
sweepstakes device shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license
for the establishment and said device shall be seized and forfeited to the City
of Cheviot.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to an internet sweepstakes cafe that will
conduct its business at a location that is within 500 feet from the boundaries
of a parcel of real estate having situated on it a school, public library,
public playground, church, or religious institution, or within or adjacent to
any premises that have been issued a liquor permit by the state.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any internet sweepstakes cafe
locations in existence at the time of the passage of this chapter, and shall
not apply to any duly licensed internet sweepstakes cafe locations in existence
at the time a school, public library, public playground, church, religious
institution, or any establishment that has been issued a liquor permit by the
state moves within 500 feet of the internet sweepstakes cafe. However, any
change in ownership of the internet sweepstakes cafe or change in location will
remove the internet sweepstakes cafe from this exception. "Change in ownership"
in the case of a partnership or corporation for the purpose of this section
means more than 50% change in partners or shareholders from the partners or
shareholders owning the partnership or corporation as of the date the school,
public library, church, religious institution, or public playground moves
within 500 feet of said internet sweepstakes cafe.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEE; TRANSFER AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   The license application fee, payable to the City of Cheviot at the
time of application and annually thereafter, shall be $5,000 for each business
location per year or any part thereof ending on December 31 of each calendar
year. In the event that an application is denied under this chapter, one-half
of the application fee shall be returned to the applicant. In the event that a
license is revoked or suspended hereunder, no portion of the license fee shall
be returned.
   (B)   The device fee for each computerized sweepstakes device shall be $500
for each device on the premises for each year or any part thereof ending on the
last day of each year. The device fee shall be paid initially upon preliminary
approval of the license application but as a prerequisite to receiving the
license, and then annually for each year thereafter.
   (C)   The device fees, which are paid at the time of preliminary application
approval, are not refundable in any case. The device fee shall be paid for each
device brought to the facility before the device is put into use. For purposes
of determining licensing fees, each device that is operable by one or more
persons is a separate device.
   (D)   Licenses issued under this chapter shall not be transferable to any
other person, partnership, corporation, or other entity; and the business may
be conducted only at the location for which the license is issued. The license
must be so placed as to be made conspicuously visible and shall list each
device with serial number.
   (E)   Failure to register any computerized sweepstakes device before
placement on the premises is an unclassified misdemeanor and the operators
shall each be liable for a mandatory fine of $150 for each day the device is
not registered, and said fine shall not be reduced or suspended.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.06 REVOCATION; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The license may be suspended or revoked at any time by the City of
Cheviot on satisfactory proof that violation of the laws of the state,
ordinances of the city, or of this chapter occur on the premises. In addition
to any license suspension, the city may assess the licensee a penalty fee of
not less than $500 nor more than $1,500 for any violation of this chapter. Each
day a continuing violation exists shall constitute a separate violation for
purpose of assessing penalty fees. Suspensions, revocations, or assessments of
penalty fees are in addition to and separate from any criminal liability and do
not preclude criminal prosecution for any violation of this chapter or other
municipal, state, or federal laws.
   (B)   Any person may submit a written complaint to the City of Cheviot with
regard to any internet sweepstakes cafe location, which shall include the name
and address of the complainant, the location of the internet sweepstakes cafe,
and the specific reasons that the person is complaining. The designated city
official or a designee from law enforcement shall regularly inspect the
premises, the operation, the computerized sweepstakes devices, and the
licensee’s records and may issue a complaint to the licensee for any
violations.
   (C)   The Safety-Service Director, or his or her designee from law
enforcement, shall meet with the complainant and inquire as to the specific
reasons for the complaint. The complaint may be dismissed if it is determined
that:
      (1)   The specific reasons listed in the complaint are not proper grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license.
      (2)   There are not substantial credible facts to support the complaint
by the person.
   (D)   No appeal shall lie from the decision to dismiss a complaint.
   (E)   If the complaint is not dismissed, the Safety-Service Director, or his
or her designee, will then notify the licensee and the owner of the devices on
the premises, as listed on the license application, that a complaint has been
filed and will set a date for a conference on the matter. Extensions will be
granted and necessary investigations will be conducted at the discretion of the
Safety-Service Director, who may request the assistance of any person in law
enforcement to assist in the investigation. The City of Cheviot and its
designee and any law enforcement officer shall have access to the premises and
the records of the licensee during all times that the computerized sweepstakes
devices are available for play.
   (F)   At the time of the conference, the complainant, the licensee, the
Safety-Service Director, or his or her designee, and the owner of the devices
will meet and attempt to amicably resolve the situation. If the complainant,
licensee, Safety-Service Director, or his or her designee, and the owner of the
devices can reach an amicable solution, the City of Cheviot will direct the
licensee to comply with the solution in his notice of reconciliation.
   (G)   If the parties cannot agree upon an amicable solution to the problem,
the complaint shall be transmitted to the Mayor for consideration. The
recommendation may be for dismissal of the complaint, suspension of the license
and assessment of penalty fees, or revocation of the license.
   (H)   Consideration of the complaint shall be a public hearing which shall
be held within 30 days after said notice is given. The complainant, the
licensee and the owner of the devices, as listed on the license application,
shall be notified at least 15 days in advance of the hearing by certified mail;
and they may, if they so choose, be present during consideration of the
complaint. The licensee shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and
have the right to examine and cross-examine witnesses and introduce evidence.
The Mayor shall enter his decision the day of hearing unless additional time is
needed. In the event of a decision and ruling adverse to the licensee, the
licensee shall have the right to appeal such decision and ruling to a court of
competent jurisdiction under authority of and pursuant to the provisions of
R.C. Chapter 2506.
   (I)   This complaint process is separate and distinct from any law
enforcement action taken to enforce the laws of the state or the city and is
not a condition precedent or otherwise an impediment to enforcement of said
laws by criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No operator of an internet sweepstakes cafe shall permit the same to be open
or shall permit any person to operate any computerized sweepstakes device,
except between the following hours: Sunday through Thursday beginning at 10:00
a.m. through 1:00 a.m. of the following day, and Friday and Saturday beginning
at 10:00 a.m. through 2:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.08 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No licensee of an internet sweepstakes cafe by himself, directly or
indirectly, or by any servant, agent, or employee, shall permit or fail to take
active steps to eliminate or prevent the activities specified in this section
from occurring on the premises. All such licensees shall have a duty to
diligently pursue enforcement of this section. The actions or inactions of the
operator and the failure to take action by the operator shall be imputed to the
licensees.
   (B)   No such licensee shall:
      (1)   Permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent,
immoral, or disorderly conduct upon the premises;
      (2)   Permit the premises to become a gathering place for disorderly
persons of any type;
      (3)   Permit gambling in any form or the possession or use of gambling
paraphernalia upon the premises;
      (4)   Permit intoxication or the possession or use of alcoholic beverages
upon the premises;
      (5)   Permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug, narcotic, or
controlled substance;
      (6)   Permit the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or walkways adjacent
to the premises to become littered;
      (7)   Permit the premises or the activity conducted thereon to become a
public nuisance to the surrounding environs;
      (8)   Permit the walkways to become obstructed in any manner so that
pedestrian traffic is hindered;
      (9)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device thereon to be operated
at any time the premises is not open for business, or permit the entrance to be
locked at any time that the premises are open for business;
      (10)   Permit the premises to become overcrowded so as to constitute a
hazard to the health or safety of persons therein or to be in violation of any
of the city’s fire, health, or sanitation codes;
      (11)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device to be offered to the
public for operation unless fully operable and in safe operation condition;
      (12)   Permit the premises to be open for business without displaying the
licenses therefor in a conspicuous place thereon;
      (13)   Permit the operation of any unlicensed computerized sweepstakes
device upon the premises;
      (14)   Permit any violation of any ordinance of the city or statute of
the state to take place upon the premises.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.09 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Any internet sweepstakes cafe shall have an adult who is 21 years of
age or over on the premises and supervising at all times the computerized
sweepstakes devices during all hours of operation.
   (B)   The interior of the interior sweepstakes cafe shall provide a minimum
area of 40 square feet per computerized sweepstakes device in each room in
which such devices are located.
   (C)   No operator shall permit the sale, possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages on the premises of an internet sweepstakes cafe.
   (D)   No operator shall fail to maintain order and quiet on the premises so
as not to violate the public peace.
   (E)   No persons under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the
premises of any internet sweepstakes cafe.
   (F)   The operator shall require a valid photo identification of every
person to whom anything of value is given in connection with the internet
sweepstakes cafe and shall record the person’s name, date of birth, home
address, a description of the thing given, a stated dollar value of the thing
given, the date and time of the giving, and, if an entertainment device is
involved in the circumstances of the giving, the serial number or other
identifying description of the device. If the dollar value given, for any
single event for which there is a chance of winning, is $600 or more, the
operator shall also include in the record a copy of the photo identification
and record the person’s social security number. By the second Tuesday of each
month the operator shall cause to be delivered to the tax commissioner a copy
of the record containing the information set forth above for the preceding
month. The operator and the tax commissioner shall not disclose the social
security number of any person to anyone except as required by the laws of the
state and of the United States.
   (G)   The operator shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises in the
room where the computerized sweepstakes devices are located in no less than 20-
point type:
      (1)   Each separate prize that may be given and each separate dollar
amount that might be given.
      (2)   The odds of winning a prize as stated in the city application, and
required by §
112.03(A)(7).
      (3)   A complete statement of the rules and conditions pertaining to the
giving of any prizes or anything of value to any person, whether or not the
determination the giving of the thing of value or the delivery of the thing of
value occurs totally within the confines of the premises or requires some
event, occurrence, or happening at another location.
   (H)   The operator shall keep a complete set of all records of the
operations at the premises at all times, including all federal, state, and
local tax records; all records of payments and receipts; all records of
expenses and revenues of the operation; all banking records; all contracts,
leases, and agreements affecting the premises, equipment, and operation; all
personnel records; and all other records pertaining to the business. Records
shall be maintained for ten years.
   (I)   No applicant shall make a false or incorrect statement in an
application for a license; and no operator shall fail to update the information
supplied to the City of Cheviot to reflect existing operations as required in §
112.03(B).
   (J)   Operators and owners shall be strictly liable for any violation of
this chapter, and there shall be no required proof of mens rea for the
conviction of an offender or for the finding of an administrative violation.
   (K)   No person shall be denied any license or the right to use a licensed
computerized sweepstakes device under this chapter in the City of Cheviot
because of race, color, creed, sex, religious belief, or natural origin.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.10 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any provision of this chapter shall be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a specific penalty
is not otherwise stated shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition to the penalties set forth herein,
the license for the internet sweepstakes cafe shall be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 11-16, passed 7-19-11)
CHAPTER 113: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
Section
   
113.01   Establishment of fee
   
113.02   Notification of fee
§ 113.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE.
   In accordance with the requirements of R.C. § 1332.32, all video service
providers providing video service in the city pursuant to a video service
authorization obtained from the Director of the Ohio Department of Commerce
shall pay video service provider fees ("VSP fees") in the amount of 5% of gross
revenues received from providing video service in the city, which gross revenue
base shall include advertising revenues. The VSP fee shall be paid quarterly,
no sooner than 45 days nor later than 60 days after the end of each calendar
quarter.
(Ord. 09-26, passed 10-20-09)
§ 113.02 NOTIFICATION OF FEE.
   No later than ten days from the receipt of notice from a video service
provider that it will begin providing video service in the city pursuant to a
state-issued video service authorization, the Safety-Service Director is
authorized and directed to provide such service provider with notice of the VSP
fee as determined by City Council, which notice shall be given by certified
mail.
(Ord. 09-26, passed 10-20-09)
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   General authorization and definitions
   
114.02   Designated zones
   
114.03   Operating restrictions
   
114.04   Application and licensing
   
114.05   Inspections
   
114.06   Independence of the mobile food vendor provisions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 GENERAL AUTHORIZATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General authorization. The Safety-Service Director or his designee is
authorized to grant revocable street privileges for the placement of mobile
food and beverage within the city subject to the definitions and restrictions
in this chapter.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   MOBILE FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDING UNIT. A commercially manufactured,
motorized, or otherwise mobile unit, truck, or cart that is readily moveable,
and from which non-alcoholic beverages or ready-to-eat food is cooked, wrapped,
packaged, processed, or portioned for service, sale, or distribution.
      (2)   MOBILE FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDOR. Any person who sells or offers for
sale food or beverages from a mobile food and beverage vending unit in any
public, private, or restricted space.
      (3)   DESIGNATED ZONES. Include all zones as each is defined in Section
114.02.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15)
§ 114.02 DESIGNATED ZONES.
   (A)   There shall be five designated zones in the city in which mobile food
and beverage vending units may operate. The designated zones shall be
appropriately marked as such by the Safety-Service Director. The five
designated zones are as follows:
      (1)   Harrison Avenue east bound in front of Pioneer Park;
      (2)   Harrison Avenue west bound in front of the City Cemetery;
      (3)   Glenmore Avenue north bound in front of the Cheviot Savings Bank;
      (4)   Gamble Avenue near Glenmore Avenue; and
      (5)   North Bend Road south bound in front of Harvest Home Park.
   (B)   The Safety-Service Director shall be responsible for the exact
placement of the designated zones, which shall be the approximate length of two
standard parking places.
   (C)   In addition to the five designate zones listed above, mobile food and
beverage vending units may operate on privately owned property in the Business
District of the city with the written consent of the property owner. Upon a
written request at least two weeks in advance from the Safety-Service Director,
a mobile food and beverage vending unit may, where warranted, receive
permission to operate outside of a designated zone.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15)
§ 114.03 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile food and beverage vending unit or mobile food and beverage
vendor may operate outside of a designated zone.
   (B)   No mobile food and beverage vending unit or mobile food and beverage
vendor may operate without a valid permit.
   (C)   No mobile food and beverage vending unit or mobile food and beverage
vendor may operate outside of the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 3:00 a.m. Mobile
food and beverage vending units and mobile food and beverage vendor shall not
occupy any space in a designated zone outside of the authorized operating
hours.
   (D)   Spaces within the designated zones shall be available on a first-come,
first-served basis each day. The issuance of a permit under this chapter does
not guarantee access to a particular location, nor does it guarantee that space
will be available.
   (E)   Mobile food and beverage vending units and mobile food and beverage
vendors shall be in full compliance with all regulations of the Hamilton County
Health Department and shall be subject to any required inspections.
   (F)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall keep the area within a five
foot radius of their unit clear of all litter and debris arising from their
operation.
   (G)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall be responsible for removing all
waste generated by the internal operations of their unit. Such waste shall not
be placed in city trash receptacles. Grease and liquid waste may not be
disposed of in tree pits, storm drains, sewer drains, or streets.
   (H)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall not operate in any manner that
blocks, obstructs, or restricts the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians in
the lawful use of the sidewalks or highways or ingress or egress to the
abutting property.
   (I)   A mobile food and beverage vending unit shall not exceed 31 feet in
length, nor shall it exceed eight feet, five inches, in width.
   (J)   A valid city permit must be kept on the mobile food and beverage
vending unit at all times and must be available for immediate inspection.
   (K)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall not park in a way that prevents
other trucks from parking in otherwise available spaces.
   (L)   Mobile food and beverage vendors may set up tables and chairs in the
space immediately in front of their units, provided that the tables and chairs
do not impede other trucks from parking in otherwise available spaces, and
further provided that the tables and chairs are placed:
      (1)   Only on paved surfaces;
      (2)   In a location that does not block the entrance or exit of any
building;
      (3)   In a location that does not block access to buses at bus stops,
fires escapes, sidewalk access doors, traffic or street lighting equipment,
utility valve boxes, or other utility equipment;
      (4)   In a location that is at least five feet from any alley, pedestrian
crosswalk, driveway, curb cut, curb ramp, fire hydrant, or bicycle rack; and
      (5)   Such that an open area of not less than four feet is available for
pedestrian traffic around tables and chairs.
   (M)   Mobile food and beverage vendors may display advertising consisting
only of the mobile food and beverage vendor name and logo and any items sold or
otherwise available from the mobile food and beverage vendor. All other
advertising is prohibited.
   (N)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall not have access to location
within the designated zones during special events designated by the city.
Examples of this are the Harvest Home Parade and West Fest.
   (O)   In the case of mobile food and beverage vending units which are pulled
or hauled by separate vehicles, the mobile food and beverage vending unit shall
be detached from the vehicle by which it was hauled (the "hauling vehicle").
The hauling vehicle shall be parked in a regular, lawful parking space and
shall not occupy space in any designated zone.
   (P)   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall not utilize the city's
electrical outlets, unless specifically authorized by the city, within the
designated zones.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 APPLICATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Persons desiring to obtain a revocable street privilege for the
operation of a mobile food and vending unit in the designated areas or in any
approved area shall submit an application on a form to be provided by the
Safety-Service Director or his designee, which shall:
      (1)   Identify the name, mailing address, telephone number, and tax
identification number of the applicant;
      (2)   Identify the name and address of the person authorized to receive
notices from the city;
      (3)   Identify a primary and secondary contact who can be contacted in an
emergency;
      (4)   Include proof of liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 naming the City of Cheviot as an additional insured party;
      (5)   Include a non-refundable application fee as set forth below; and
      (6)   Include a copy of the applicant's current food service license
issued by the Hamilton County Department of Health.
   (B)   A business owner may only apply for and receive one revocable street
privilege. Any revocable street privilege issued as a result thereof will grant
the holder permission to operate one mobile food and beverage vending unit
within the city’s designated zones.
   (C)   A non-refundable application fee of $100 shall accompany the first
application by each applicant for a revocable street privilege under this
section.
   (D)   If a revocable street privilege is issued, it shall be for a term of
one year, and an additional fee of $50 shall be paid by the licensed vendor
before the revocable street privilege is issued. The revocable street privilege
may be renewed annually for an additional $50 per year, provided that the
licensed vendor seeking renewal is in full compliance with all regulations in
this chapter, has no pending violations, and has not allowed a previously
issued privilege to lapse.
   (E)   No more than 20 mobile food and beverage licenses may be issued and in
effect at any one time.
   (F)   Issuance of a revocable street privilege for a mobile food and
beverage vendor does not create or confer a property interest of any kind.
   (G)   Revocable street privileges for mobile food and beverage vendors are
nontransferable.
   (H)   Prior to the issuance of a revocable street privilege, the applicant
shall provide to the Safety-Service Director a certified copy of their criminal
history from the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office. Prior convictions for
felonies shall be grounds for a denial of the issuance of the privilege. In
addition, the Fire Department shall annually conduct a safety inspection of the
applicant's unit before a privilege may be issued or renewed.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15; Am. Ord. 17-09, passed 3-21-17)
§ 114.05 INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections for compliance with this chapter may be performed by the
Hamilton County Health Department, the Police Department, or the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15)
§ 114.06 INDEPENDENCE OF THE MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PROVISIONS.
   The regulations and restrictions contained in this chapter apply to all
mobile food and beverage vendors. This chapter does not exempt a mobile food
and beverage vendor from compliance with all other ordinances and regulations
contained in the Cheviot Code of Ordinances including, but not limited to,
parking regulations, health regulations, zoning regulations, and business
regulations.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15)
§ 114.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or operator of any mobile food and beverage vending unit who
violates any section of this chapter will be first issued a written warning.
Any owner or operator who continues to violate any section of this chapter may
be issued a civil citation in the amount of $200 which must be paid within ten
days of issuance. Additional violations or failure to pay fines within the
allotted time period shall result in the immediate revocation of the revocable
street privilege.
   (B)   Any person, owner, or operator who operates a mobile food and beverage
vending unit without a valid and current revocable street privilege issued by
the city shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. The offense shall be a strict
liability offense, with no mens rea requirement of proof on the part of the
city. A second or subsequent offense shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. Fines and punishment shall be as set forth in Section
130.99 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 15-21, passed 9-15-15)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
         
134.   GAMBLING
         
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
         
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
         
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
         
139.   MISCELLANEOUS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rule of construction
   
130.06   Limitations of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Repeat offender; dangerous offender
   
130.14   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.15   Self-defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the city not classifiable in previous titles and
chapters. The word MISDEMEANORS as used in this title is not exhaustive, and
does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of ordinances are not
also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a penalty of fine or imprisonment, or
both, is provided under this title or elsewhere in this code of ordinances is
declared a violation of ordinance and unlawful, and is made a misdemeanor upon
conviction whereof the penalty or penalties so provided shall be imposed by the
court.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member's appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans' home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms.
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34,
of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (2),
(3) or (4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in violation of
former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section,
as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is of the type
otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant woman, even if
it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. "Financial instruments associated with
computers" include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, TRADE SECRET has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 1333.61, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and INFORMATION SERVICE have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of CONTRABAND in
this section, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE, COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER
SOFTWARE, COMPUTER SYSTEM, DATA, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.05 RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
   (D)   Any provision of this Code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this Code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATIONS OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), (C), or (D) of this section or as
otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred unless it is
commenced within the following periods after an offense is committed:
      (1)   For a felony, six years;
       (2)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
      (3)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
   (B)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation of
R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
   (C)   A prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32, 2907.04,
2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26, 2909.27,
2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a violation
of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a violation of
R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12.
      (2)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 2901.13(D) to (L), a
prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of either
section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25 years after the
offense is committed.
(R.C. § 2901.13(A)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as defined
in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit
an offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. §3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to division (E)
(1) of this section for an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in
violation of division (A) of this section, if the offender used a motor vehicle
as the means to attempt to commit the offense, the court shall impose upon the
offender a class two suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege as specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to attempted rape and
also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1418, 2941.1419, or 2941.1420, the offender shall be sentenced
to a prison term or term of life imprisonment pursuant to R.C. § 2971.03.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.  
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.13 REPEAT OFFENDER; DANGEROUS OFFENDER.
   (A)   As used in this title, REPEAT OFFENDER means a person who has a
history of persistent criminal activity and whose character and condition
reveal a substantial risk that he or she will commit another offense. It is
prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat offender if any of the following
applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   (B)   As used in this title, DANGEROUS OFFENDER means a person who has
committed an offense, whose history, character and condition reveal a
substantial risk that he or she will be a danger to others, and whose conduct
has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive, compulsive or aggressive
behavior with heedless indifference to the consequences.
(R.C. § 2935.36(E)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.14 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C.
§§ 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Revised
Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under this
chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion
to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §§
130.99 or
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 to 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) to (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim's right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 130.15 SELF-DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Except where otherwise specifically classified within the body of the
section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section shall be deemed
a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) to (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. §2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
133.99 of this Code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender's term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender's participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real- time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender's community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender's sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender's occupation or care
for the offender's family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender's privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender's motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator's license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim's costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               E.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               A.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               B.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined.
               C.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s general fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 to 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.03   Possession of city property
   
131.04   Sidewalks to be kept free of snow and ice
   
131.05   Weeds, vines, and grass
   
131.06   Control of vegetation in the public right of way
Property Damage
   
131.10   Arson
   
131.11   Determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.12   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.13   Criminal mischief
   
131.14   Criminal trespass
   
131.141   Aggravated trespass
   
131.142   In park after hours
   
131.143   Unauthorized use of park facilities
   
131.144   Restrictions on use of Harvest Home Playground
   
131.15   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.16   Negligent burning
   
131.17   Tampering with hydrant, pipe, or meter
   
131.18   Strewing glass and such material on streets
   
131.19   Smoking; carelessness in
   
131.20   Injury of property by hunters
   
131.21   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
Theft Offenses
   
131.25   Theft
   
131.26   Value of stolen property
   
131.27   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.28   Receiving stolen property
   
131.29   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.30   Unauthorized use of property or access to computer systems
   
131.31   Passing bad checks
   
131.32   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.33   Making or using slugs
   
131.34   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.35   Defrauding creditors
   
131.36   Securing writings by deception
   
131.37   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.38   Tampering with records
   
131.39   Motion picture piracy
   
131.40   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicated or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   COMPUTER HACKING means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER.  Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C.  §§ 2909.01,  2913.01) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 131.02 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by R.C.
§ 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable time
after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.03 POSSESSION OF CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her control
or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to
the city.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.04 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or other person having the care of any building
premises or unimproved lot of land abutting any street where there is a graded
sidewalk or a sidewalk graded and paved, shall, within the first four hours
after daylight after the ceasing to fall of any snow, cause the same to be
removed from the paved or traveled part of the sidewalk. The provisions of this
section shall also apply to the falling of snow or ice from any building onto a
sidewalk. Snow or ice shall not be moved into the gutter when the gutter has
been previously cleaned, and in no event shall snow or ice from any area other
than the pedestrian walk be moved into the gutter.
   (B)   Whenever a sidewalk, or any part thereof, along any building premises
or unimproved lot of land shall be encumbered with ice, the owner, occupant, or
other person having the care of such premises or lot shall cause the sidewalk
to be made safe and convenient by removing the ice therefrom or by covering the
same with sand or other suitable substance. Such action shall be taken within a
period of two hours during the daytime.
   (C)   Violation of the provisions of this section by such owner, occupant,
or person in charge shall be deemed a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.05 WEEDS, VINES, AND GRASS.
   (A)   The owner, lessor, lessee, tenant, occupants, or person or persons
having care and control of a plot or ground within the city shall cut down and
remove all offensive and noxious weeds, vines, and grass of a height of ten
inches or more and all weeds, vines, and grass constituting a threat to the
public health, safety, comfort, and welfare. For the purposes of this section,
when a piece of real property is in the process of foreclosure, the person or
entity who holds the mortgage upon which the foreclosure is taking place may be
considered to be an additional person having care and control of the property.
   (B)   (1)   When the Safety-Service Director determines that such weeds,
vines, or grass, as described in division (A) of this section, exist, he or she
shall serve written notice to the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or person
having care of or control of the plot of ground, ordering the cutting and
removal of such weeds, vines, or grass within five days of the receipt of such
notice. The Safety-Service Director shall also post the notice in a conspicuous
place on the property advising the owner of the order to cut and remove weeds,
vines, or grass within five days of the posted notice. The posted notice shall
list the date of the notice and the name of the Safety-Service Director and his
or her address and telephone number.
      (2)   The notice shall be deemed properly served if, in addition to the
posted notice described above, the notice is either:
         (a)   Delivered via regular U.S. Mail to the recipient's last known
address; or
         (b)   Served personally by hand-delivery to the recipient.
      (3)   The date of receipt of the regular mail notice, as described in
division (B)(1) above, shall be considered to be the third day after it was
mailed by the Safety-Service Director.
   (C)   If the property in violation of division (A) is vacant, the address of
the owner or person having charge of the land is unknown, or service cannot be
completed by the methods described in division (B), it is sufficient to publish
the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The date of
receipt of the notice shall be deemed to be the date of publication.
   (D)   Only one notice per calendar year under divisions (B) or (C) above is
required for a particular lot or parcel. If after a notice has been served in
accordance with this section, the Safety-Service Director determines that a
subsequent violation has occurred, the city may proceed with the remedies set
forth in this section without any further notice.
   (E)   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or person having care or control
of the plot or ground shall cut and remove the non-complying weeds, vines or
grasses within five days of the receipt of the notice. Failure to comply with
the notice shall be a minor misdemeanor punishable according to the penalties
enumerated in §
130.99. Each day of violation may be the basis of a separate offense. If,
having been previously convicted of a violation of this section, a person is
convicted of a new offense, that offense shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree punishable according to §
130.99. The owner, owners, tenant, or tenants may be jointly and severally
responsible for compliance with this section, and the conviction of one does
not preclude the conviction of another.
   (F)   In addition to the criminal penalties noted in division (E), a failure
to comply with the notice given by the Safety-Service Director shall cause the
city to cut and remove the non-complying weeds, vines, or grass. Such cutting
shall be at the owner's expense, and the actual cost of removal, along with an
administrative fee of 20% of the cost, shall be charged to the owner and
assessed against the plot or ground.
   (G)   Notice of such charge and assessment shall be sent by mail or given to
the owner of the lot charged therewith. All assessments not paid within 30 days
after such notice is mailed shall, after approval by City Council, be certified
by the Clerk of Council to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax duplicate
and collected as other taxes are collected.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 03-19, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. 04-25,
passed 10-5-04; Am. Ord. 19-03, passed 2-5-19)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.06 CONTROL OF VEGETATION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
   (A)   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupants, or person or persons having care
and control of a plot of ground within the city shall remove from his or her
land and the public right of way abutting his or her land every dead, decayed,
or broken tree, plant, or shrubbery, or part thereof, so that the same shall
not fall to the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupants, or person or persons having care
and control of a plot of ground within the city upon which a tree, plant, or
shrubbery stands in a position to overhang any portion of an abutting public
right of way, shall trim or cause to be trimmed the tree, plant, or shrubbery
on his land or the public right-of-way abutting such land, so that a clear
height of eight feet is maintained between the lowest branches of foliage of
the tree, plant, or shrubbery and the public street or sidewalk.
   (C)   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupants, or person or persons having care
and control of a plot of ground within the city shall cut down and remove from
his or her land and the public right-of-way abutting such land any tree, plant,
or shrubbery or any part thereof, as may be necessary to provide a clear and
unobstructed view of traffic from all directions at any right-of-way
intersection, and to abate any nuisance necessary to protect life, limb, or
property of persons, occupants of vehicles, and pedestrians using the abutting
public right-of-way.
   (D)   (1)   When the Safety-Service Director or the Building Commissioner
determines that any of the conditions mentioned in divisions (A), (B), or (C)
above exist, he or she shall serve written notice to the owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant, or person having care or control of the plot of ground ordering
compliance within 14 days of receipt of the notice. The Safety-Service Director
shall also post the notice in a conspicuous place on the property advising the
owner of the order to cut or remove the tree, plant, or shrubbery within 14
days of the posted notice. The posted notice shall list the date of the notice
and the name of the Safety-Service Director and his or her address and
telephone number.
         (a)   The notice shall be deemed properly served if, in addition to
the posted notice described above, the notice is either:
            1.   Delivered via regular U.S. Mail to the recipient's last known
address; or
            2.   Served personally by hand delivery to the recipient.
         (b)   The date of receipt of the regular mail notice, as described in
division (D)(1)(a)1 above, shall be considered to be the third day after it was
mailed by the Safety-Service Director.
         (c)   If the property in violation of division (A), (B), or (C) is
vacant, the address of the owner or person having charge of the land is
unknown, or service cannot be completed by the methods described in division
(D)(1), it is sufficient to publish the notice once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. The date of receipt of the notice shall be deemed to
be the date of publication.
      (2)   If, after 14 days after written notice by the Safety-Service
Director or the Building Commissioner, requiring compliance with divisions (A),
(B), or (C) above, the responsible party fails to comply, the Safety-Service
Director may cause the required work to be done by the labor force of the city
or by a licensed contractor; and the cost thereof assessed against the lot or
parcel of land. Such cutting shall be at the owner's expense, and the actual
cost of correction and/or removal, along with an administrative fee of 20%,
plus any publication costs shall be charged to the owner and assessed against
the plot or ground.
   (E)   Notice of such charge and assessment shall be sent by mail or given to
the owner of the lot charged therewith. All assessments not paid within 30 days
after such notice is mailed shall, after approval by City Council, be certified
by the Clerk of Council to the County Auditor to be placed upon the tax
duplicate and collected as other taxes are collected.
(Ord. 04-13, passed 4-20-04; Am. Ord. 19-03, passed 2-5-19)
PROPERTY DAMAGE
§ 131.10 ARSON.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
§ 131.11 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of §
131.10:
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (A)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (A)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (B)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.61.
   (C)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C. §
2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
§ 131.12 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
            (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
            (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
         (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal
damaging or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of
this division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal
damaging or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or
endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an
aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or
implement used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if
the violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if
the property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied
aircraft, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE . Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.13 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
   (B)   As used in this section, SAFETY DEVICE means any fire extinguisher,
fire hose, or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape
equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or
raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of
danger or emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard
railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad
grade crossing sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment,
or any other device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or
preserving the safety of persons or property.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief, and
shall be punished as provided in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 972, passed 1- 28-75)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.14 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   LAND or PREMISES includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(R.C. § 2911.21) (Ord.931, passed 12-18-73; Am.Ord.972, passed 1-28-75)
   (G)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (G), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (G)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field,
an athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (G)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (G)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (G)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (G)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
§ 131.141 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (C)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 131.142 IN PARK AFTER HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly enter onto or remain on the premises known
as Harvest Home Park, the Cheviot Field House and its grounds, or the Pioneer
Cemetery located on Harrison Avenue, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to :
      (1)   Persons participating in an event for which a permit has been
issued, for the period of time granted, with additional allowance made for
clean-up and closing;
      (2)   The caretaker of Harvest Home Park, his family, and his invited
guests;
      (3)   Employees of the City of Cheviot while on official city business;
      (4)   Independent contractors, under contract with the City of Cheviot,
while on official city business.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of being in a park after
hours, a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 10-1-13)
§ 131.143 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARK FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly enter onto or remain on the premises of the
Mayor's Pavilion at the Cheviot Fieldhouse.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons and their invited guests who have, in advance of their use,
rented the particular shelter by paying the applicable fee and deposit to the
city Recreation Commissioner and having a rental permit issued for the period
of time during which they are present;
      (2)   Employees of the city while on official city business;
      (3)   Independent contractors, under contract with the city, while on
official city business.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of park facilities, a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 6-6-17; Am. Ord. 17-21, passed 9-5-17)
§ 131.144 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF HARVEST HOME PLAYGROUND.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the "Harvest Home Playground" means the
area of Harvest Home Park which is enclosed by a fence and includes equipment
designed for children's play and recreation, including, but not limited to,
swings, slides, teeter-totters, monkey bars, etc.
   (B)   No adult person, who has the legal responsibility to supervise or care
for a minor person under the age of 13 years, or who has voluntarily undertaken
such responsibility, shall negligently permit that minor to use the Harvest
Home Playground unless the adult is physically present within the boundaries of
the Harvest Home Playground.
   (C)   No minor child between the age of 13 years and 17 years shall be
present in the Harvest Home Playground unless accompanied by a child under the
age of 13.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be guilty of
negligent playground supervision, a minor misdemeanor.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section shall be adjudicated a
delinquent child and subject to a fine not exceeding $150.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 6-6-17)
§ 131.15 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.16 NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled, any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field, or wood lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.17 TAMPERING WITH HYDRANT, PIPE, OR METER.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously open, close, adjust, or interfere with a
fire hydrant, valve, regulator, gauge, gate, disc, curb cock, stopcock, meter
or other regulator, operating or measuring device, or appliance in or attached
to the wells, tanks, reservoirs, conduits, pipes, mains, service pipes, house
pipes, or other pipes or apparatus of a water company or furnisher of water,
with intent to cause the escape of water or to injure or destroy such property.
No person shall tap, sever, open, or make unauthorized connections with a main
or pipe used or intended for the transmission of water. This section does not
apply to the agent or employee for that purpose, of the owner or operator of
the appliances referred to in this section, and does not apply to anything done
by or under authority of the fire department.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4933.22) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.18 STREWING GLASS AND SUCH MATERIAL ON STREETS.
   Whoever shall drop or place, cast, lay, and permit to remain upon any
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds of the city, clippings of wire,
metals, pieces of broken glass or any other substance or material by which
injury may occur to the feet of horses or persons or any personal property
using such streets, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.19 SMOKING; CARELESSNESS IN.
   (A)   Whoever, by reason of careless, willful, or wanton conduct in smoking,
or in the use of lighters or matches for smoking, shall set fire to any
bedding, carpet, curtain, drapes, furniture, household equipment, or other
goods or chattel, or to any building, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   A printed copy of this section shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in every sleeping room of every hotel, rooming house, lodging house, tourist
home, tourist court, or other place renting rooms for the accommodation of the
public.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.20 INJURY OF PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Revocation of license for violation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.21 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
THEFT OFFENSES
§ 131.25 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license, probationary driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.26 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (2) of this section, and the value of services, is the
fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section, FAIR
MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a seller
would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to
buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all
facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to
act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.27 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.28 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 2-8-83)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.29 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.30 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY OR ACCESS TO COMPUTER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.31 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.32 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (3), or (4) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the property
and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2), (3), or (4)
of this section which violations involve one or more credit card accounts and
occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on the date of the
first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. l252, passed 2-8-83)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.33 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.34 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
Penalty, see § 130.99
131.35 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Insurance fraud and worker's compensation fraud, see R.C. §§ 2913.47 and
2913.48
§ 131.36 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 1252, passed 2-8-83)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.37 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.38 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.39 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION means the capability of a device to record
or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.40 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Riot
   
132.04   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Personating an officer
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Baseball diamonds, surrender of
   
132.14   Loud noises
   
132.15   Loud music
   
132.16   Possession of police paraphernalia prohibited
   
132.17   Open container prohibited; exception
   
132.18   (Reserved)
   
132.19   Misconduct involving public transportation system
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.03 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.04 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency medical
services personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who serves
in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
   IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform or
any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
   INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
   PEACE OFFICER.    A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
   PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer, private
detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.13 BASEBALL DIAMONDS, SURRENDER OF.
   Whoever willfully refuses to surrender the use of the baseball diamonds in
the public parks of the city to any person or persons possessing a permit duly
signed by the proper official of the recreation commission of the city for the
use of the baseball diamond, shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.14 LOUD NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any whistle, rattle,
bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, player piano, calliope, radio,
phonograph, or other sound-producing or sound-amplifying instrument, or in any
other way create noise or sound in such manner as to disturb the peace and
quiet of a neighborhood, or to interfere with the transaction of business or
other ordinary pursuits. Any violation of this section shall be a minor
misdemeanor, but nothing herein shall be construed to affect the usual and
reasonable operation of steam railroads, electric railways and motor buses, or
to prohibit the reasonable use of automatic warning signals, the reasonable
ringing of church bells, or the reasonable and ordinary noises attendant on
athletic contests or lawful public or semipublic meetings, parades or
celebrations.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated in a motor vehicle
within the city limits any radio, stereo, amplifying device, or other sound
producing instrument which is plainly audible within a distance of 50 feet from
the vehicle or sound producing device or in any other way create noise or sound
in such manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighborhood or other
ordinary pursuits. Any violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor,
but nothing herein shall be construed to affect the usual and reasonable
operation of motor buses, or prohibit the reasonable use of automatic warning
signals.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 94-44, passed 12-20-94)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.15 LOUD MUSIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm, or corporation
operating a restaurant, hotel, summer garden, or other place of refreshment or
entertainment to permit, or for any person in or about such premises to engage
in, the playing or rendition of music of any kind, singing, loud talking, or
other noises on or about the premises, in such manner as to disturb the peace
and quiet of the neighborhood, having due regard for the proximity of places of
residence, hospitals, or other residential institutions, and to any other
conditions affected by such noises.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person, association, firm, or
corporation operating a restaurant, hotel, summer garden, or other place of
refreshment or entertainment to permit, or for any person in or about such
premises to engage in, the playing or rendition of music of any kind, singing,
loud talking, or other noises on or about the premises during the night season
after 11:00 p.m., except as may be permitted under
§ 110.16.
   (C)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit shall state
the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
   (D)   Any person, association, firm, or corporation violating this section
shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.16 POSSESSION OF POLICE PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   Whoever, without authority, makes, sells or has in his possession, any
policemen's wreath, number, manual, badge, button, belt or whistle shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.17 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE means a vehicle registered under R.C. §
4503.24.
      (2)   STREET, HIGHWAY, and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the department of liquor control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2 permit holder or S permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer of intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for such possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from a qualified permit holder to
which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the motor vehicle is stationary and is not being operated in a lane of
vehicular travel or unless the possession is otherwise authorized under
division (D) or (E) of this section.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for the use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a
prearranged contract, or the guest of the person, when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
(R.C. § 4301.62) (Ord. 98-23, passed 6-16-98)
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 132.18 (RESERVED).
Editor’s note:
   This section, formerly containing provisions regarding public intoxication,
has been deleted because the underlying statute, R.C. § 3773.22, was repealed.
§ 132.19 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 to 306.13, a regional
transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.71, or a
regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.80 to
306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system. A violation of division
(B), (C), (D) or (F) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A
violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
Penalty, see § 130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Prostitution
   
133.08   Procuring
   
133.09   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.10   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.11   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.12   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.13   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.14   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
Obscenity
   
133.15   (Reserved)
   
133.16   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.17   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.18   Presumptions; notice
   
133.19   Declaratory judgment
   
133.20   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE.  When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE.  A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE.  A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person's, or one of the other
person's ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender has been convicted previously
of a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05,
2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person's conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person's physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Ord.931, passed12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §
2907.25(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.08 PROCURING.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized, or otherwise involved in
a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years of age at the
time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates division
(A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute's age, or if a prostitute who
engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in violation of division
(B) of this section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation,
regardless of whether the offender who violates division (B) of this section
knows the prostitute's age, procuring is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.09 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   As used in division (D) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (G)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.11 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club,
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so
described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.12 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.13 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.14 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
"Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the "Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person's official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
OBSCENITY
§ 133.15 (RESERVED).
§ 133.16 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.17 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.18 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (B)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
   (C)   This §
133.18 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator's or projectionist's place of employment, other than wages.
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of §§
133.16 and
133.17(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person's control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §§
133.16 and
133.17 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (D)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §§
133.16 and
133.17 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (E)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §§
133.16 and
133.17 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee's or agent's conduct is within the scope of the employee's or agent's
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee's or agent's conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee's or agent's
conduct.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
§ 133.19 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.20 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Ch. 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Raffle drawings
   
134.07   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
Bingo
   
134.10   Rules for conducting bingo
   
134.11   Records required to be kept
   
134.12   Restrictions on bingo game operators
   
134.13   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.14   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.15   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.16   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.17   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Cross-reference:
   Internet sweepstakes cafes, see
Chapter 112
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Means either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and preannounced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. BINGO GAME OPERATOR does not
include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are "bingo supplies" are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a bingo license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and
the proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and is
a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT
BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable  organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s
organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to
R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATION means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509 (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are war veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance, or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Means gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of- way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. "Instant bingo" also includes a punch board game. In all
INSTANT BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Means gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. SCHEME OF CHANCE
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, ELECTRONIC DEVICE means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. ELECTRONIC DEVICE
does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. 
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE. 
      (1)   Means either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. SWEEPSTAKES does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02 :
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance, as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit if or a
scheme of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or
operation of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing
any such game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Ord. 1252, passed 2-8-83)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.06 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.07 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
BINGO
§ 134.10 RULES FOR CONDUCTING BINGO.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall not do any of
the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)
(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division (A)(1),
(A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09) Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.11 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially  equivalent  municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social security number of
all persons who are winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.12 RESTRICTIONS ON BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.13 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)    Sections
134.06,
134.10 to
134.12 and
134.14 through
134.17 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent  municipal ordinance.
            2.    A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.    A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.    A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. §2915.12)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.14 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially  equivalent  municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. §2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran's
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.15 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.16 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.17 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Negligent homicide
   
135.02   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.03   Assault
   
135.04   Negligent assault
   
135.041   Injury of persons by hunters
   
135.05   Aggravated menacing
   
135.06   Menacing
   
135.061   Menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Coercion
Offenses Against the Family
   
135.15   Bigamy
   
135.16   Consensual abortion
   
135.17   Abortion trafficking
   
135.18   Domestic violence
   
135.19   Endangering children
   
135.20   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.21   [Reserved]
   
135.22   Interference with custody
   
135.221   Interference with support orders
   
135.23   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
§ 135.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
§ 135.02 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license
or commercial driver's license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C.  § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER OFFENSE
means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another's unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender's commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender's driver's
license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend or revoke driver's license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and
4510.33
§ 135.03 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another's unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another's unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
§ 135.04 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another's unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.041 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory Reference:
   Revocation of license for violation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.05 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of aggravated
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), aggravated
menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a private child
placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an
offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.06 MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family. In
addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family, the
other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are
directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that
employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of menacing.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), menacing is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a misdemeanor
of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.061 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall
knowingly cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical
harm to the other person or a family or household member of the other person or
cause mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of
the other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member or mental distress to the other person or
the other person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or
mental distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are
directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that
employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (A)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (A)
(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A)(1)
(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of menacing by
stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
         (b)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against
the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message
made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         (c)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
         (d)   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         (e)   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any other
person.
         (f)   While committing the offense under division (A)(1) of this
section or a violation of division (A)(3) of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (A)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly weapon
on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control. Division (B)
(2)(f) of this section does not apply in determining the penalty for a
violation of division (A)(2) of this section or a violation of division (A)(3)
of this section based on conduct in violation of division (A)(2) of this
section.
         (g)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
         (h)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises
at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under division (A)(2) of this section or an offense
committed under division (A)(3) of this section based on a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that real
property, or any personal property on that premises.
         (i)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
         (j)   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties.
         (k)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
   (C)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in division (A)(1)(a) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         (b)   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
      POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (A)(1)(a)
of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim of
the conduct.
   (E)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under division
(A) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental heal services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in division (b) of the
definition for “mental distress” in this section.
   (F)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person solely
because the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control,
including having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access
or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transfering information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is or will be sent in violation of division (A) of this section except
as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (A) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Anti-stalking protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. §
2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.08 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (4),
or (5) of this section that the actor's conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose was limited
to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
Penalty, see § 130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST THE FAMILY
§ 135.15 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor's spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.16 CONSENSUAL ABORTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABORTION. The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any person,
including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to produce a
live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
   EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
   UNEMANCIPATED. A woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age who has
not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become employed
and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the care and
control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician's good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician's good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician's license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.17 ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.18 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.19 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child's mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter.
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE, and SEXUAL ACTIVITY have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b),(c) or (d), a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (d) of this section, endangering children is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) of
this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (c), endangering children in
violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. §§ 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (b) or (c) of this section or pursuant to any other
provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender's driver's
license or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other provision
of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of
the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section or pursuant to any other provision
of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as a part of the
same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to
a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also shall be
sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantiallyequivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Torturing children, administering corporal punishment, administering
unwarranted disciplinary measures, or allowing child to participate in
production of obscene matter, felony offenses, see R.C. § 2919.22(B) and (D)
   Additional penalties, community service work, separate violations, see R.C.
§ 2919.22(E) - (H)
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.20 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support;
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
    (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney's fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.21 [RESERVED]
§ 135.22 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of this section from the parent,
guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1), (2) or (3)
of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically disabled
child under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused, or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill or
an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (B)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (A)(1) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child's health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (A) of
this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (A)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (B) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
Penalty, see § l30.99
§ 135.221 INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence against
another person, shall interfere with the other person's initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with an action
to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or modify a support order
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.23 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Penalty, see § 130.99
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Registration of convicted persons
Compounding
   
136.05   Compounding a crime
   
136.06   Failure to report a crime
   
136.07   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
Obstruction
   
136.10   Falsification
   
136.11   Obstructing official business
   
136.12   Obstructing justice
   
136.13   Resisting arrest
   
136.14   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facility
   
136.15   Arrest or citation notice, failure to obey
   
136.16   Interfering with firemen
   
136.17   Assault of police officer
   
136.18   Failure to obey court order
   
136.19   Contempt of court
   
136.20   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Official Misconduct
   
136.25   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.26   Soliciting, receiving, or offering improper compensation
   
136.27   Dereliction of duty
   
136.28   Interfering with civil rights
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY, and POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING.    Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 REGISTRATION OF CONVICTED PERSONS.
   (A)   Registration by persons convicted of certain crimes. Every person
coming into the city, whether in transit through, or otherwise, who has been
convicted in federal or state courts of any offense which is a felony under the
laws of the United States or of the state in which committed, or which would be
classed as a felony, if committed in the State of Ohio, if the conviction shall
have been within the period of five years prior thereto, shall report to the
police department, within 24 hours after his arrival within the city, and shall
furnish to the department, in a written statement signed by him, his true name
and every other name or alias by which he has been known, a full and complete
description of himself, and the name of each offense as hereinabove defined of
which he has been convicted, together with the names of the places where each
such offense was committed, the name under which he was convicted, the date of
conviction, and the name, if any, and location of each penal institution in
which he has been confined by way of punishment for each such offense, together
with the location or address used by him, as a residence, stopping place, or
living quarters in the city, with a description of the character of each such
place, whether a hotel, apartment house, dwelling house, or otherwise, giving
the street number thereof, if any, or any description of the same as will so
identify it as to make it possible of location; also the length of time he
expects to remain within the city.
   (B)   Photograph and fingerprints. Every person registering in accordance
with division (A) shall be photographed and fingerprinted by the police
department, and his photograph and fingerprints shall be made a part of its
permanent records.
   (C)   Convicted persons residing in the city. Every person residing within
the city who has been convicted, within the immediately prior period of 5
years, of any offense, as described in division (A), shall have on file with
the police department a written statement signed by himself, containing all the
information required to be furnished in accordance with said division, together
with his photograph and his fingerprints, as provided by division (B). Such
statement shall also set forth the occupation or employment in which he is
engaged, the name of his employer, the business in which the employer is
engaged, and the nature and character of the business.
   (D)   Change of address. In the event that any person required to register
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall change his place of
residence, stopping place, or living quarters to a new or different place
within the city, he shall, within 24 hours after leaving the registered
location, notify the police department of the changed address in a signed
statement, which statement shall set forth his new address. Similar
notification shall be made in the case of further changes of address.
   (E)   False information. No person who is subject to the provisions of this
section shall furnish in any report a false or fictitious address, or furnish
any false, untrue, or misleading information or statement relating to
information required by the provisions of this section to be made or furnished.
   (F)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be a misdemeanor of
the first degree, with a maximum penalty of 6 months in jail and a fine of
$1,000.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 01-14, passed 6-5-01)
COMPOUNDING
§ 136.05 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.06 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse- patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, COUNSELING
SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.07 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73
Penalty, see § 130.99
OBSTRUCTION
§ 136.10 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser's identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13), or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
Cross-reference:
   Fraudulent application for driver's license, see §
71.01
§ 136.11 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official's official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official's lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 8-8-78)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Resisting traffic officer, see §
70.04
§ 136.12 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT and CHILD have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.13 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Resisting traffic officer, see §
70.04
§ 136.14 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.15 ARREST OR CITATION NOTICE, FAILURE TO OBEY.
   Failure to obey the order of an arrest or citation notice shall be a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.16 INTERFERING WITH FIREMEN.
   (A)   No person shall willfully obstruct, impede, or hamper in any way the
lawful operations of firemen, rescue personnel, medical personnel, or other
authorized persons at the scene of fires, accidents, disasters, or emergencies
of any kind, while in lawful performance of their other duties. Willfully
tampering with, damaging, or attempting to damage fireplugs, hoses, or any
other fire fighting equipment shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   No person shall willfully assault, threaten in a menacing manner,
strike, or wound a member of the fire department while such member is engaged
in the lawful performance of his duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.17 ASSAULT OF POLICE OFFICER.
   Whoever strikes or assaults a police officer, or draws or lifts up any
weapon or offers any violence against a police officer while the officer is in
execution of his official duties, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.18 FAILURE TO OBEY COURT ORDER.
   (A)   Whoever receives an order in the mayor's court staying or suspending
imposition of a fine and/or jail sentence for a certain period of time after
being found guilty of violation of a city ordinance and then neglects, fails,
or refuses to comply with the conditions of such stay, shall be charged with
violation of a stay of execution.
   (B)   Whoever shall be placed on probation in the mayor's court after being
found guilty of violation of a city ordinance, and then shall violate the
conditions of the probation during the term of such probation, shall be charged
with violation of probation.
   (C)   Whoever shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with or obey any
lawful order of the mayor's court, other than those stated in this section, or
in §
136.15 shall be charged with violation of a court order.
   (D)   For violations of divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the court may
impose the maximum fine and/or jail sentence provided by law for the offense or
offenses for which the stay had been granted, or as to which probation has been
granted. Credit shall be given for fines paid and/or jail sentence served on
the original offenses. The offense set out in division (C) above shall be a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 1022, passed 3-23-76)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.19 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   (A)   The mayor, or acting mayor, when presiding in the mayor's court, may
punish persons guilty of the following acts:
      (1)   Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the mayor, so
presiding, tending to interrupt the due course of trial, or other judicial
proceedings before the mayor.
      (2)   A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceedings.
      (3)   Willful resistance in the presence of the mayor to the execution of
a lawful order, or process, made or issued by the mayor.
   (B)   A warrant or arrest may be issued by the mayor, on which the person
charged with such contempt may be arrested and brought before the mayor's
court. Such a person shall be given an opportunity to be heard in defense or
excuse. The mayor may discharge or convict such person for the offense.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1229, passed 4-27-82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.20 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer's control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG, BLIND and MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Have the same meaning
as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT
§ 136.25 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
§ 136.26 SOLICITING, RECEIVING, OR OFFERING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant's official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant's public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant's
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant's
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant's official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant's own personal or business
use and no person for the person's own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.27 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer's power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant's office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant's office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk- treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college- preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.28 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant's office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.06   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.07   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.08   Unlawful discharge of certain weapons
   
137.09   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.10   Defaced firearms
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   DEADLY WEAPON means any instrument, device, or thing capable of
inflicting death, and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or
possessed, carried, or used as a weapon.
   (B)   (1)   FIREARM means any deadly weapon capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant. FIREARM includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is
inoperable but that can readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   (C)   HANDGUN means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (C)(1) of this section can be assembled.
   (D)   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM means any firearm designed or specially adapted
to fire a single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge
ready to fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   (E)   AUTOMATIC FIREARM means any firearm designed or specially adapted to
fire a succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   (F)   SAWED-OFF FIREARM means a shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches
long, or a rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle
less than 26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any
firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale
by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the
Gun Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is
found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the National Firearms Act, 68A
Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (G)   ZIP-GUN means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture;
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter's pistol, that
is not designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a
firearm;
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device that is not
designed as a firearm but that as designed is capable of use as such when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
   (H)   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE means any device designed or specially adapted to
cause physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and
consisting of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it.
EXPLOSIVE DEVICE includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition
device, any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any
pressure vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to
explode.
   (I)   INCENDIARY DEVICE means any firebomb, and any device designed or
specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of
fire, and consisting of an incendiary substance or agency and a means to ignite
it.
   (J)   BALLISTIC KNIFE means a knife with a detachable blade that is
propelled by a spring-operated mechanism.
   (K)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE means any of the following, except as provided in
division (L) of this section:
      (1)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife;
      (2)   Any explosive device or incendiary device;
      (3)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite,
pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives;
dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate,
liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting agents;
and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining,
quarrying, excavating, or demolitions;
      (4)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon;
      (5)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor;
      (6)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
   (L)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder;
      (2)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm;
      (3)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its actual
age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical, hydraulic,
pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the tube into
battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for use only
with black powder;
      (4)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (L)(3) of this
section during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and target
practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition;
      (5)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot readily
be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio, or museum piece;
      (6)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18
U.S.C. § 921(a)(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act;
      (7)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the Gun Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)
(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the National
Firearms Act, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (M)   EXPLOSIVE means any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary
or common purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all
materials that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division
1.3, or division 1.4 explosives by the United States department of
transportation in its regulations and includes, but is not limited to,
dynamite, black powder, pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps,
electric blasting caps, safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant
fuses, instantaneous fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. EXPLOSIVE does not
include "fireworks," as defined in § 3743.01 of the Revised Code, or any
substance or material otherwise meeting the definition of EXPLOSIVE set forth
in this section that is manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, stored, or
used in any activity described in § 3743.80 of the Revised Code, provided the
activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the provisions of § 3743.80 of the
Revised Code and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to § 3737.82 of
the Revised Code.
   (N)   (1)   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN means, subject to division (N)(2) of this section, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under §§
2923.125 or 2923.1213 of the Revised Code or a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued by another state with which the Attorney General has entered
into a reciprocity agreement under § 109.69 of the Revised Code.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of the Revised Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under § 2923.125 of the Revised Code or a license to
carry a concealed handgun issued under § 2923.125 of the Revised Code means
only a license of the type that is specified in that section. A reference in
any provision of the Revised Code to a concealed handgun license issued under §
2923.1213 of the Revised Code, a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
under § 2923.1213 of the Revised Code, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in § 2923.1213 of the Revised Code. A reference in any provision of
the Revised Code to a concealed handgun license issued by another state or a
license to carry a concealed handgun issued by another state means only a
license issued by another state with which the Attorney General has entered
into a reciprocity agreement under § 109.69 of the Revised Code.
   (O)   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN means a concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not
under a suspension under division (A)(1) of § 2923.128 of the Revised Code,
under § 2923.1213 of the Revised Code, or under a suspension provision of the
state other than this state in which the license was issued, and that has not
been revoked under division (B)(1) of § 2923.128 of the Revised Code, under §
2923.1213 of the Revised Code, or under a revocation provision of the state
other than this state in which the license was issued.
   (P)   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR
does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   (Q)   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER means the number issued by the United States
citizenship and immigration services agency that is located on the alien's
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the "USCIS
number" or the "alien number."
   (R)   ACTIVE DUTY has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 19-26, passed 10-15-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. § 2923.11
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license and if the
person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest the
person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender's right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a violation of division (B)(1) of this section,
the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. §
2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time of the stop of the offender for a law
enforcement purpose that was the basis of the violation, any law enforcement
officer involved with the stop had actual knowledge that the offender has been
issued a concealed handgun license, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (B)(1) of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s
concealed handgun license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)
(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C.§ 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense,see R.C. §2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary electric-
powered all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle
that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of
Wildlife, provided that the road is identified by an electric-powered all-
purpose vehicle sign.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season
for a wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that
is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife, provided that the road is
identified by an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle sign.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      TENANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   UNLOADED means, with respect to a firearm employing a percussion
cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon is uncapped
or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.06 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give, or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by §§ 2923.13 or 2923.15 of the Revised Code from acquiring or using
any firearm, or recklessly sell, lend, give, or furnish any dangerous ordnance
to any person prohibited by §§ 2923.13, 2923.15, or 2923.17 of the Revised Code
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (4) of this section;
      (6)   Manufacture, possess for sale, sell, or furnish to any person other
than a law enforcement agency for authorized use in police work, any brass
knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack, sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade
knife, gravity knife, or similar weapon;
      (7)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to § 2923.17 of the Revised Code, or negligently fail to take a
complete record of the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of that record
to the sheriff of the county or safety director or police chief of the
municipality where the transaction takes place;
      (8)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person's
possession or under the person's control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (4), and (5) of this section do not apply to any of
the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer's duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (A)(3), (4),
or (5) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. A violation of division (A)(6) or (7) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(8) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AMMUNITION has the same meaning as in § 2305.401 of the Revised
Code.
      (2)   FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER has the same meaning as in §
5502.63 of the Revised Code.
      (3)   MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION means information regarding the
transfer of a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as
legal or a legal transaction as illegal.
      (4)   PRIVATE SELLER means a person who sells, offers for sale, or
transfers a firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms
dealer.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 19-26, passed 10-15-19)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. § 2923.20
§ 137.07 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.08 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person, except law enforcement officers, agents or employees of
this or any other political subdivision of the state or of the United States,
acting under the scope of their duties, shall discharge any kind of firearm or
dangerous weapon, including handguns, rifles, shotguns, air rifles, air guns,
cannons, or explosive bombs from a mortar within the limits of the city, except
in self-defense or the defense of others where deadly force is justifiable.
Anyone who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the
possession or transportation of weapons, that are legal to possess under
federal and state law, and that are being carried or stored in conformity with
state and federal law.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73; Am. Ord. 08-28, passed 10-21-08)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.09 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state
if the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee's residence address to the sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee's hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee's hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee's hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp,
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee's hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriffs office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee's carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located, if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution's board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer's premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer's premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer's decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.   An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution's decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and § 2923.1214 of the Revised Code, the owner or person in control of
private land or premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or
premises owned by the state, the United States, or a political subdivision of
the state or the United States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on
that land or on those premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or
concealed firearms on or onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition
of that nature is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)
(4) and is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly
violates a posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises
primarily was a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty
of criminal trespass under R.C . § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of
this state or criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision
of this state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for
trespass based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant's guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency's policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person's service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability;
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest;
               c.   At the time of the person's retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer's duties;
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency;
               e.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a
person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by
name, contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this
state or of the political subdivision of this state from which the person
retired as a peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and
specify that the person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in
divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the
required content specified in this division, a retired peace officer
identification card issued to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this
section may include the firearms requalification certification described in
division (B)(6)(c) of this section, and if the identification card includes
that certification, the identification card shall serve as the firearms
requalification certification for the retired peace officer. If the issuing
public agency issues credentials to active law enforcement officers who serve
the agency, the agency may comply with division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section by
issuing the same credentials to persons who retired from service as a peace
officer with the agency and who satisfy the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section, provided that the credentials so
issued to retired peace officers are stamped with the word "RETIRED";
               f.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision
of this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer
with the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace
officer identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer's
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD means an identification card
that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person who
is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.1212:
      Each person, board, or entity that owns or controls any place or premises
identified in division (B) of § 2923.126 of the Revised Code as a place into
which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a concealed
handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post in one or
more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that contains a statement in
substantially the following form: "Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant
to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly possess, have under the
person's control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance onto these premises."
(Am. Ord. 19-26, passed 10-15-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. §§ 2923.126, 2923.1211(B), (C), and 2923.1212
§ 137.10 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Laboratory report required for prosecution
   
138.03   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.04   Controlled substance schedules
Drug Abuse
   
138.10   Drug possession offenses
   
138.11   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.12   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.13   Abusing harmful intoxicants
Unlawful Transactions
   
138.20   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.21   (Reserved)
   
138.22   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.23   Nitrous oxide; improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.24   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.25   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.26   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.27   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.28   Sale of dextromethorphan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding 5 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug
abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount
of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding 3 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
       (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A JUVENILE if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of a
juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is "committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict" if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider's facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider's
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider's
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta- phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)- 4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4- piperidinyl]-
N-phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2- hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4- piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2- (thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]- phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2- phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4- piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2- phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para- fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH. 
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider's
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) to (37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed as an auctioneer or apprentice auctioneer or
licensed to operate an auction company under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident's
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist's license, or a dental
hygienist's teacher's certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 138.02 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED FOR PROSECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer's regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer's education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused's attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused's attorney's receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused's analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused's analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused's attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused's privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused's choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.03 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.04 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
DRUG ABUSE
§ 138.10 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), "deception" and "theft offense"
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996,” 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender pleaded guilty
to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States
arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall
suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for
not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.11 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.12 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
Statutory reference:
   Disbursement of fine monies and bail forfeitures, see R.C. § 2925.13 (D)(3)
and (4)
§ 138.13 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS
§ 138.20 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, "drug" includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.21 (RESERVED).
§ 138.22 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Disbursement of fine monies and bail forfeitures, see R.C. § 2925.36(D)(3)
and (4)
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.23 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person's business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: "Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health."
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person's business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.24 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.25 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introduced into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in section division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.26 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD and TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE . Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
      (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.27 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.28 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or commercial driver's
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
CHAPTER 139: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
139.01   Abuse of corpse
   
139.02   Desecration
   
139.03   Unvented heaters
   
139.04   Abandoned refrigerators
   
139.05   Discarding litter
   
139.06   Discarding yard waste
   
139.07   Maintaining a nuisance
   
139.08   Fences; barbed wire; charged fence
   
139.09   Failing to remove litter
   
139.10   Spitting
   
139.11   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
§ 139.01 ABUSE OF CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.02 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, "cemetery" means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 139.03 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil, kerosene,
gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, or similar fuel, and tending to
give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors;
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in (A) (1) above, or used with
sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 3701.82(A) - (C), 3701.99(B))
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.04 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of 1.5 cubic feet or more and an opening of 50
square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge, latch,
or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches
or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This section
shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer, warehouse or
repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B)) (Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.05 DISCARDING LITTER.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him,
or in or on waters of the state unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements;
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he reasonably
believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle;
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle;
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. Means a bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT. Means to throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. Means a dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can,
or similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.06 DISCARDING YARD WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of yard waste on public and/or private
property not owned by them or in or on waters of the municipality.
   (B)   As used in this section, YARD WASTE means landscaping waste, grass,
leaves, tree branches, flowers, or other woody materials or prunings, dirt,
rocks, sod, garden waste, vegetation, tree limbs, holiday trees, trimmings,
and/or anything found in soil.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. A sentencing court may, in addition to or in lieu of the penalty
provided in this division, require a person who violates this section to remove
yard waste from any public or private property, or in or on waters of the
municipality.
(Ord. 1606, passed 12-21-93)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.07 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals, or of the public. No person shall cause or allow
offal, filth, or noisome substances to be collected or remain in any place to
the damage or prejudice of others, or of the public. No person shall unlawfully
obstruct or impede the passage of a navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water, or corrupt or render unwholesome or impure, a watercourse, stream, or
water, or unlawfully divert such watercourse from its natural course or state
to the injury or prejudice of others.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. §§ 3767.13, 3767.99)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.08 FENCES; BARBED WIRE; CHARGED FENCE.
   (A)   No person shall construct or cause to be constructed a partition fence
from barbed wire unless written consent of the adjoining owner is first
obtained. Such consent is not necessary to the use of 1 or 2 barbed wires
placed on the top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided that
neither is less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (B)   This section shall apply only to fences within areas zoned for
residential use.
   (C)   No person shall construct, erect, maintain, or use, for any purpose,
any fence charged with electrical current, within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.09 FAILING TO REMOVE LITTER.
   Whoever being the owner, agent, lessee, occupant, or person in charge or
control of any premises abutting a street, avenue, or alley, who shall fail to
remove, with reasonable promptness, from the premises or from the portion of
the sidewalk, driveway, or alley abutting such premises, all litter, debris,
refuse, or rubbish of any kind, which may accumulate or be deposited thereon
from any cause whatever, or shall through such failure permit such litter,
debris, refuse, or rubbish of any kind, to be blown or carried from such
premises onto adjoining or nearby areas, shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day's failure to remove the same shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.10 SPITTING.
   No person shall expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk, any street crossing,
the floor of any public conveyance, theatre, railway depot or platform, or the
floor of any schoolhouse, church or public building of any kind. Conviction of
this offense shall be deemed a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 931, passed 12-18-73)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.11 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   ZONING CODE
         
151.   BUILDING CODE
         
152.   ELECTRIC CODE; UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
         
153.   DISH-TYPE ANTENNAE
         
154.   CUT AND FILL REGULATIONS
         
155.   SIGN REGULATIONS
         
156.   COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
         
157.   FENCE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Interpretation and purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
Maps and Districts
   
150.04   Zones of city
   
150.05   Building restrictions
Use Regulations
   
150.06   Residence and R-1 Districts
   
150.07   Business District
   
150.08   Multiple Zone District use regulations
   
150.09   Office and Professional District use regulations
   
150.10   Nonconforming use regulations
   
150.11   Height, yard, and court regulations
   
150.12   Height, yard, and court exceptions
   
150.13   Off-street parking requirements
   
150.131   Overlay Zoning District
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
150.14   Board of appeals created
Administration
   
150.15   Enforcement
   
150.16   Pending applications for building permits
   
150.17   Certificate of occupancy for zoning only
   
150.18   Remedies
Telecommunications Towers
   
150.20   Wireless and cellular telecommunications towers and facilities
   
150.21   Removal of abandoned wireless and cellular telecommunication towers
and facilities
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning changes, Table of Special Ordinances,
Table VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the building zone code or zoning code.
('73 Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.02 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be the minimum requirements adopted for
the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity,
and general welfare. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the
use of buildings or premises or upon heights of buildings, or requires larger
yards, courts, or other open spaces than are imposed or required by other
provisions of law or ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
('73 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively. Any words not herein defined
shall be construed as defined in the building code.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way, less than 21 feet in width.
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit designed for, or occupied by one family.
      (1)    APARTMENT, EFFICIENCY. An apartment which has a floor area of 800
square feet or less within its peripheral walls.
      (2)    APARTMENT, REGULAR. An apartment which has a floor area of more
than 800 square feet within its peripheral walls.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER. Any licensed vehicle used for sleeping or living
quarters, or intended to be used for sleeping or living quarters, propelled
either by its own power or by another power-driven licensed vehicle to which it
may be attached, and having no foundation other than wheels with pneumatic
tires.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building below or immediately above grade and
not used for habitation other than janitor's or watchman's quarters. A basement
shall not be considered as a story if the floor level is not less than 3 feet 6
inches below the average grade at the exterior walls of the building.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. Any board, panel, tablet, or other sign placed in view of
the general public for advertising purposes, where less than 60% of the area of
the announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, or insignia appearing
thereon is used to advertise the business conducted on the premises and minor
products or commodities incidental thereto. The term BILLBOARD SIGN shall not
be deemed to include any sign permitted in the residence district.
   BOARD. The zoning board of appeals as created by §
150.14 of this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or built for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, or chattels.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The mean vertical distance from the average established
grade in front of the lot, or from the average natural grade at the building
line, if higher, to the average height of the top of the cornice of flat roofs,
or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mid- height of the highest
gable or dormer in a pitched or hipped roof, or, if there are no gables or
dormers, to the mid-height of a pitched or hipped roof. Where a lot faces on 2
or more streets or alleys of different average established grades in front of
the lot, the higher of the grades shall control only for a depth of 120 feet
perpendicularly back from the street line of the higher street or alley. On a
corner lot, the height is the mean vertical distance from the average
established grade, or from the average natural grade at the building line or,
if higher, on the street of greatest width, or if 2 or more such streets are of
the same width, from the higher of the grades.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. A business district situated in the city only.
   CITY. The City of Cheviot, and all areas within its boundaries.
   COURT. An open space other than a yard on the same lot with a building.
      (1)    COURT, INNER. Any court other than an outer court.
      (2)    COURT, OUTER. A court extending to and opening upon a street,
alley, or required yard.
   DWELLING. A building occupied as an abode by one or more persons.
      (1)    DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
      (2)    DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied
exclusively by 2 families.
      (3)    DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied
exclusively by 3 families.
      (4)    DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied
exclusively by 4 families.
      (5)    DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling designed for or occupied by more
than 2 families.
   FAMILY. An individual or 2 or more persons related by blood or marriage, or
a group of not more than 5 persons (including servants), who need not be
related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling or apartment.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or a portion of a building, in which only motor
vehicles used by the occupants of the building or buildings on the premises are
stored or kept.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A garage, other than a storage garage, where self-propelled
vehicles or trailers are stored, equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for
remuneration, hire, or sale.
   HOTEL. Any dwelling licensed as such by the state fire marshal, and kept,
used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a place where
food is served and sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to transient
guests, in which 6 or more rooms are used for the accommodations of such
guests, and having one or more dining rooms directly accessible from within the
dwelling.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land, abutting on a street, whose area, in
addition to the parts thereof occupied or which may hereafter be occupied by a
building and buildings accessory thereto, is sufficient to furnish the yards
and courts required for compliance with this chapter. A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if the tangents to
the curve at its points of beginning within the lot, or at the points of
intersection of the interior side lot lines with the street lot line, form an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of intersection of the
street lot lines or the tangents to curves is the corner.
   LOT, CORNER. Any lot abutting upon 2 intersecting streets at their
intersection, or upon 2 parts of the same street, and, in either case, forming
an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
    LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
      (1)    LOT LINE, FRONT. The line dividing a lot from a street. On a
corner lot only one street line shall be considered as a front line; provided
that where the length of a shorter street line is less than 90% of the length
of the longer street line, the shorter street line shall be considered the
front lot line.
      (2)    LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of an irregular, triangular, or gore-shaped lot, it shall mean a line
within the lot, 10 feet long, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
      (3)    LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   MARIJUANA. Shall have the same meaning as marijuana as defined in § 3719.01
of the Revised Code.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is cultivated, processed, tested,
possessed, or used for medical purposes.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used for the temporary residence of
transient motorists or travelers.
   NONCONFORMING USE. One that does not conform with the use regulations of the
district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME. Any home used for the reception and care, for a consideration
or not, of 3 or more persons who, by reason of illness or physical or mental
impairment, require skilled nursing care. Skilled nursing care means those
procedures commonly employed in providing for the physical, emotional, and
rehabilitative needs of the ill or otherwise incapacitated which require
technical skills and knowledge beyond that which the untrained person
possesses.
   OVERLAY ZONE. A zoning district that is applied over one or more previously
established zoning districts, establishing additional or stricter standards and
criteria for covered properties in addition to those of the underlying zoning
district.
   PERSON. A mature person, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns,
and also including firms, partnerships, or corporations, its or their
successors or assigns, or the agent of any of them.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling occupied by 3 or more roomers, or in which 3 or
more rooms are kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to
be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay, provided that
HOTELS as herein defined, and any dwelling in which one or 2 rooms within
individual dwelling units are let out by the occupants of the units shall not
be construed to be rooming houses for purposes of this chapter. No person shall
operate or permit to be operated a rooming house without having a license or
temporary certificate to do so, obtained from the safety-service director.
   STORY. That part of a building, included between any floor and the floor or
roof next above; provided, that for any purposes of regulating the dimensions
of yards and courts, when the average story height of any building exceeds 12
feet, each 12 feet or fraction thereof of total building height shall be
considered as a separate story, except the first story, which may be 15 feet
high. A mezzanine story shall be deemed a full story where it covers more than
50% of the area of the story next below.
   STREET. Any public or private way not less than 21 feet in width, whose
primary function is to furnish the chief means of access to the properties
abutting it.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires a permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural members of a building,
such as walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   VACANT. That the building or land has not been used or occupied in whole or
in part by any lawful nonconforming use for a period of 2 years.
   WAREHOUSE. A building where wares or goods are stored.
   YARD.  An open space on the same lot with a building.
      (1)    YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot,
and measured between the front lot line and the building.
      (2)    YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, and
measured between the rear lot line and the building.
      (3)    YARD, SIDE.  A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard
and measured between the side lot line and the building.
('73 Code, § 150.03) (Am. Ord. 19-24, passed 9-17-19; Am. Ord. 19-25, passed
12-3-19)
MAPS AND DISTRICTS
§ 150.04 ZONES OF CITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into the
following districts or zones:
      (1)   Residence.
      (2)   R-1.
       (3)   Multiple.
      (4)   Business A.
      (5)   Business B.
      (6)   Business B-1.
      (7)   Office and Professional.
      (8)   Business B Overlay Zone (as described in §
150.131).
   (B)   The boundaries of these districts are established as shown on the
building zone map, which is located in the office of the clerk. Where a
district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership, and of
record on the effective date of this chapter, the use authorized on and the
district requirements of the least restricted portion of the lot shall be
construed as extending to the entire lot; provided, that such extension shall
not include any part of the lot which is more than 25 feet from the district
boundary line. Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary
lines shall be determined by the board as provided in § 150.14 (D).
('73 Code, § 150.04) (Am. Ord. 19-24, passed 9-17-19)
§ 150.05 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered
for any use, nor shall any building or premises be used other than as permitted
in the district in which the building or premises is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered
to exceed the height limits herein established for the district in which the
building is located.
   (C)   No building permit for any residential construction or any improvement
for new construction shall be issued, unless the real estate upon which the
construction is proposed shall consist of a lot having a minimum frontage of 21
feet on a public dedicated street or way. There shall be 21 feet of such
frontage for each permit issued.
   (D)    (1)   Any territory that shall be annexed to the city shall be
governed by and subject to whatever zoning laws and regulations are applicable
to the abutting and contiguous lot or parcel of land in the city.
      (2)   In the event that the territory annexed to the city shall abut and
be contiguous to lots or parcels of land in the city which are in more than one
zone as provided by the zoning laws of the city, the territory shall be
governed by and subject to the zoning laws and regulations applicable to the
various lots or parcels of land abutting and contiguous to said territory.
   (E)   Every lot or tract of land on which there is erected a single-family
or 2-family residence shall have an area of not less than 7,500 square feet for
a single-family residence and not less than 10,000 square feet for a 2-family
residence, excluding lots of record on date of passage of this section.
Irregular shapes, panhandles, and other narrow appendages with less than 50
feet of width shall not be calculated in the determination of the required
minimum lot area.
(Ord. 1457, passed 8-15-89; Am. Ord. 02-28, passed 1-15-02)
   (F)   Every lot or tract of land on which there is erected a multiple
dwelling unit shall have a minimum area as follows:
      (1)   In Multiple District:
         (a)   1,500 square feet for each regular apartment;
         (b)   800 square feet for each efficiency apartment.
      (2)   In Business District no density requirements apply except as
controlled by setbacks, yards, and parking requirements.
('73 Code, § 150.04)
 Penalty, see § 150.99
USE REGULATIONS
§ 150.06 RESIDENCE AND R-1 DISTRICTS.
   In the Residence and R-1 Districts, the following uses only are permitted:
   (A)   In the Residence Districts, single-family and two-family dwellings, as
well as the other uses permitted by this section.
   (B)   In the R-1 Districts, single-family dwellings, as well as the other
uses permitted hereinafter in this section. However, lots in the R-1 Districts
shall have a minimum width of 50 feet at the building line.
   (C)   Churches and other places of worship, Sunday school buildings, and
parish houses.
   (D)   Schools, educational institutions, colleges, including dormitories,
public libraries, public museums, and public art galleries.
   (E)   Municipal buildings or properties, except for any use that is
customarily conducted as a gainful business.
   (F)   Parks, recreational and community center buildings, and grounds for
games or sports, except those where the chief activity is carried on or is one
customarily carried on primarily for gain.
   (G)   Hospitals, nursing homes, dispensaries, sanitariums, physicians'
offices, clinics, and treatment rooms, and other welfare or charitable
institutions (other than penal or correctional institutions, and those
primarily for the care and treatment of epileptics or drug addicts, or
alcoholics or the insane); provided no part of any such building is located
within 50 feet of any adjoining lot in the residence district not used for a
similar purpose. However, "dispensaries" as used in this subsection shall not
include dispensaries for medical marijuana, as defined in this chapter and R.C.
Chapter 3796.
   (H)   Cemeteries adjacent to or in extension of cemeteries existing on the
effective date of this chapter.
   (I)   Telephone exchanges and static transformer stations, provided there is
no yard or garage for service or storage.
   (J)   Greenhouses, nurseries, truck gardens, and farms, including the usual
farm uses and buildings; provided no part of any greenhouse heating plant or
any building in which farm animals are kept is located within 100 feet of the
adjoining lot in the residence district not used for a similar purpose, and
provided that greenhouses, nurseries, truck gardens, and farms may not
cultivate or process medical marijuana, as defined in this chapter and R.C.
Chapter 3796.
   (K)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incident to any permitted
use and located on the same lot therewith, including private garages, carports,
stables, and sheds, provided that such accessory uses shall not include the
conduct of any business or industry or any private way, driveway, or walk
giving access thereto. Accessory uses shall include:
      (1)   The leasing of rooms by a resident proprietor, provided the total
number of roomers and boarders does not exceed six.
      (2)   The office of a resident person, provided that not more than 1/3 of
the floor area of one story is devoted to such use, and in which not more than
one person not a resident of the premises is employed.
      (3)   Home occupations, when conducted and entered from within the
dwelling, and in which no persons not residents of the premises are employed;
provided that not more than one-third of the floor area of one story is devoted
to such use, and that no display of goods or commodities pertaining to such use
is visible from the street. In connection with such occupation, no goods or
commodities shall be sold on the premises, and no mechanical equipment used
except such as is customarily employed for domestic or household purposes. Home
occupations within the city limits may not engage in the commerce of medical
marijuana, as defined in this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3796.
      (4)   Garage or parking space for four motor vehicles or trailers on any
lot. Such space may be increased provided that the area of the lot shall
contain not less than 1200 square feet for each motor vehicle, or trailer
stored. Only one commercial motor vehicle, not exceeding 1-1/2 tons capacity,
may be stored on any lot; this does not apply to the storage of such vehicles
used exclusively for a conforming use. Garage space for not more than two motor
vehicles may be rented to persons not occupants of the premises.
      (5)   The keeping of fowl or small animals not primarily for gain. Any
building or enclosure for such fowl and animals shall be located in the rear
yard, and shall be at least 20 feet from every adjoining lot in the residence
district.
      (6)   The keeping of horses, cows, and other livestock not primarily for
gain, and only within an enclosure which shall be at least 100 feet from every
adjoining lot in the residence district.
      (7)   The sale only of vegetables, fruits, flowers, shrubs, trees, and
farm products raised on the premises.
      (8)   Signs and canopies extending from any building or structure may
project within three feet of the curb line, and must have a minimum height of
ten feet from the sidewalk grade.
   (L)   Restricted parking lots, where the area is adjacent to a business
district, or is separated therefrom by a street or alley not over 30 feet in
width. Such restricted parking lots shall be subject, however, to the following
conditions and limitations:
      (1)   The parking lot shall be for use in connection with uses located in
the adjacent business district.
      (2)   The parking area shall be not less than 7,500 square feet, and
shall abut at least 75 feet on the adjoining business district or on the alley
or street constituting the boundary.
      (3)   The lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles.
      (4)   The lot shall not be used for repair work or servicing of any kind.
      (5)   No charge shall be made for parking.
      (6)   No signs of any kind shall be erected on the lot.
      (7)   Such other or further conditions, as the zoning board of appeals
may deem desirable, to reduce the adverse effect of a parking lot upon the
preservation of the residential character and development of the residence
district in which the parking lot is located.
   (M)   Septic tanks and sewage disposal plants publicly owned and operated.
   (N)   No outside storage except operable motor vehicles shall be permitted.
   (O)   No property or building shall be used in the Residence and R-
1 Districts for the cultivation, processing, or sale of medical marijuana, as
defined in this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3796.
('73 Code, § 150.06) (Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 19-25, passed
12-3-19)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.07 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the Business "A" District, any use is permitted except the
following:
      (1)   Uses hereinafter prohibited in the Business "B" District.
      (2)   Bakeries.
      (3)   Billboard signs.
      (4)   Bottling works, brewing or distilling of liquors.
      (5)   Carting, express, hauling, or storage yards.
      (6)   Crematory, except in a cemetery.
      (7)   Livery stables and riding academies.
      (8)   Road houses, dance halls, and commercial summer gardens.
      (9)   Stone or monument works.
      (10)   Storage, baling, or treatment of junk, iron, rags, bottles, or
scrap paper.
      (11)   Storage warehouses.
      (12)   Wholesale warehouses.
      (13)   Any fabrication, manufacturing, treatment, converting, altering,
finishing, or assembling uses, except for products retailed primarily from the
premises.
      (14)   Outside storage, except operable motor vehicles in use.
      (15)   No gasoline filling, oil, or greasing service station shall be
erected or located within 175 yards of any property used as a church, hospital,
or school.
         (a)   No such station shall be erected upon any lot, the dimension of
which is less than 150 feet front by 150 feet depth at right angles.
         (b)   No buildings other than the gasoline station buildings shall be
erected or permitted to remain on the premises.
   (B)   In the Business "B" District, any use is permitted except the
following:
      (1)   Abattoirs, slaughter houses, and stock yards (except for poultry
incidental to a retail store).
      (2)   Acetylene gas manufacture in excess of 15 pounds pressure per
square inch.
      (3)   Ammonia manufacture.
      (4)   Animal hospitals and structures where small animals are boarded, if
within 200 feet of the residence district.
      (5)   Asbestos manufacture.
      (6)   Asphalt manufacture or refining.
      (7)   Babbitt metal manufacture.
      (8)   Bag cleaning.
      (9)   Bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
      (10)   Boiler shops, structural steel fabricating shops, steel car or
locomotive shops, railway repair shops, machine shops, or metal working shops
operating reciprocating hammers or chisels or other noise-producing machine-
operated tools.
      (11)   Brewing and distilling of liquors except for micro-breweries. For
purposes of this section, a MICRO-BREWERY shall be defined to mean a small
scale facility for the brewing of beer for sale and consumption on the premises
and for sale for consumption off of the premises. Production shall not exceed
10,000 barrels of beer annually. A micro-brewery may include a restaurant or
bar to facilitate tasting and retail sales. Nothing in this section shall
exempt a micro-brewery from compliance with any provision of R.C. Title 43 or
with the corresponding state regulations.
      (12)   Brick, tile, or terra cotta manufacture.
      (13)   Bronze powder manufacture.
      (14)   Carbon, lampblack, or graphite manufacture.
      (15)   Celluloid or pyroxylin manufacture; explosive or flammable
cellulose, or pyroxylin products manufacture.
      (16)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of paris manufacture, or the
manufacture of products therefrom.
      (17)   Coal tar manufacture, tar distillation, or mineral dye
manufacture.
      (18)   Coal yards, except where the coal is stored in dustproof
containers and the dust controlled by means of effective devices.
      (19)   Coke ovens and distillation of coal.
      (20)   Cooperage works.
      (21)   Corrosion of aluminum, copper, iron, tin, lead, or zinc.
      (22)   Creosote manufacture or treatment.
      (23)   Disinfectant or insecticide manufacture, preparation or
compounding on a commercial scale.
      (24)   Electroplating.
      (25)   Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacture.
      (26)   Enameling, japanning, or lacquering, except incidental to a
permitted use.
      (27)   Excelsior and fibre manufacture.
      (28)   Explosive, or fireworks manufacture, or the storage or loading of
explosives in bulk.
      (29)   Fat rendering, tallow, grease, or lard refining, or manufacture of
candles from fats.
      (30)   Felt manufacture, except where dust is controlled by means of
effective devices.
      (31)   Fertilizer manufacture from organic material or bone distillation,
or compounding on a commercial scale.
      (32)   Flour milling.
      (33)   Foundries, forge shops, or cupolas.
      (34)   Gas manufacture of more than 5,000 cubic feet per day.
      (35)   Gasoline or oil storage above the ground in quantities exceeding
50 gallons.
      (36)   Glucose manufacture.
      (37)   Glue or size manufacture or processes involving recovery from fish
or animal offal, or fish smoking or curing.
      (38)   Ice plant or storage houses of more than 5 tons daily capacity.
      (39)   Incineration, reduction or dumping of offal, dead animals,
garbage, or refuse on a commercial basis, including loading and transfer
platforms.
      (40)   Linoleum manufacture.
      (41)   Match manufacture.
      (42)   Nitrating processes.
      (43)   Oilcloth, oiled clothing manufacture, or the impregnation of any
fabric by oxidizing oils.
      (44)   Paint, oil, shellac, size, varnish, enamel manufacture, or the
grinding of colors by machinery.
      (45)   Penal or correctional institutions, or institutions for the care
or treatment of epileptics or drug or drink addicts or the insane, except where
located at least 250 feet from the residence district.
      (46)   Petroleum refining.
      (47)   Poison manufacture, except for pharmaceutical or medical purposes.
      (48)   Potash refining.
      (49)   Printing ink manufacture.
      (50)   Pulp and paper manufacture.
      (51)   Radium or any radioactive material extraction.
      (52)   Raw or green salted hides or skins, their curing, dressing, or
tanning.
      (53)   Rock crushing.
      (54)   Rolling or blooming mills.
      (55)   Rubber, caoutchouc, or gutta percha manufacture from crude or
scrap material, or the manufacture of articles therefrom or from balata, except
incidental to tire repairing.
      (56)   Salt works.
      (57)   Sand blasting or cutting, except where the dust is controlled by
effective devices.
      (58)   Sewage disposal plants, except those operated by the city.
      (59)   Smelting or reduction of ores or metallurgical products.
      (60)   Soap, soda ash, caustic soda, or washing compound manufacture.
      (61)   Starch or dextrine manufacture.
      (62)   Stock yards.
      (63)   Stone or monument works, where the aggregate horsepower for
driving mechanical equipment for such use exceeds ten horsepower.
      (64)   Storage, baling, or treatment of junk, rags, bottles, or scrap
paper, except within a building, and where no power-driven devices are
employed.
      (65)   Sulphurous, sulfuric, nitric, picric, hydrochloric, or other
corrosive acid manufacture, their use or storage in quantities exceeding five
gallons.
      (66)   Sugar refining.
      (67)   Tar or asphalt roofing or waterproofing manufacture.
      (68)   Turpentine manufacture.
      (69)   Vinegar manufacture.
      (70)   Welding, except incidental to a permitted use.
      (71)   Wire or rod drawing; nut, screw, or bolt manufacture.
      (72)   Wood distillation.
      (73)   Wool pulling, scouring, or shoddy manufacture.
      (74)   Yeast manufacture.
      (75)   Any other fabricating, manufacturing treatment, converting,
altering, finishing, or assembling uses, where more than 25% of the total
actual floor area of the building is occupied by mechanical equipment, and
where the aggregate floor area occupied by the mechanical equipment exceeds the
gross area of the entire ground story.
      (76)   Public garages having any opening in the side or rear walls or
roof within 50 feet of the residence district, not equipped with fixed wire
glass sashes in incombustible frames.
      (77)   Gasoline filling, oil, and greasing stations having any oil-
draining pit or exposed appliance located within 12 feet of any street line, or
within 50 feet of the residence district, except where such appliance or pit is
within a building and at least 12 feet from every vehicular entrance or exit to
the premises.
      (78)   Stables, storing or handling manure or bedding within 25 feet of
any street line, or within 100 feet of any adjoining lot in the residence
district.
      (79)   Any use which may be noxious or offensive by reason of the
emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes, water-carried waste, noise, or
vibration, except that such uses may be permitted by action of the board as
provided in §
150.10 (E).
      (80)   Outside storage, except operable motor vehicles in use.
      (81)   No gasoline, filling, oil, or greasing service station shall be
erected or located within 175 yards of any property used as a church, hospital,
or school.
         (a)   No such station shall be erected upon any lot, the dimension of
which is less than 150 feet front by 150 feet depth at right angles.
         (b)   No buildings other than gasoline station buildings shall be
erected or permitted to remain on the premises.
      (82)   The use of a property or building for the cultivation, processing,
or sale of medical marijuana, as defined in this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3796,
is prohibited in Business A, B, and B-1 Districts.
      (83)   All above uses shall apply except those incidental to a permitted
use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   In the Business B-1 District, the same uses shall be permitted as in
the Business B District. However, a ten-foot front yard setback shall also be
required.
('73 Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 97-25, passed 9-3-97; Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-
06; Am. Ord. 14-3, passed 2-18-14; Am. Ord. 19-25, passed 12-3-19) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.08 MULTIPLE ZONE DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   In the Multiple Zone District, the following uses shall be permitted:
   (A)   Multiple dwellings.
   (B)   Uses permitted in the Residence and R-1 Districts.
('73 Code, § 150.07)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.09 OFFICE AND PROFESSIONAL DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS.
   In the Office and Professional District, the following uses shall be
permitted:
   (A)   Uses permitted in the Residence and R-1 Districts.
   (B)   Office buildings.
   (C)   Banks, savings and loan, building and loan companies, and other
similar financial institutions.
   (D)   Mortuaries.
   (E)   Radio and television broadcasting studios, provided that the studios
used for broadcasting are soundproof. Antennas must be approved by the planning
commission.
('73Code, § 150.09) (Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 150.10 NONCONFORMING USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any nonconforming use existing on the effective date of this chapter
may be continued. See §
150.02.
   (B)   No nonconforming use shall be permitted in any building or on any
premises which shall have been vacant for a period of two years, or whose
previous nonconforming use shall be changed or shall have been changed to a
conforming use.
   (C)   Any nonconforming building or structure of one or more of a group of
nonconforming buildings or structures related to one industry and under one
ownership, damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, or other act of God, may be
reconstructed and used as before the calamity. However, the reconstruction must
comply with the front setback required in the immediate area.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition or the making sanitary of any building or
structure or part thereof declared unsafe or unsanitary by either the
commissioners of buildings or health, or prevent compliance with any lawful
requirement of those commissioners.
   (E)   Whenever a district shall be changed hereafter, any then existing
lawful use may be continued.
('73 Code, § 150.10)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.11 HEIGHT, YARD, AND COURT REGULATIONS.
   In the various districts there shall be provided on each lot a side yard
along each side lot line, a rear yard, and a front yard, the minimum dimensions
of which shall be in accordance with the table at the end of this section and
the following regulations. The minimum dimensions of courts and the maximum
height of structures shall also be in accordance with the following table and
regulations.
   (A)   Every part of a required yard or court shall, from its lowest level to
the sky, be unobstructed, except for the following building projections:
      (1)   Bays, balconies, dormers, vestibules, including the necessary
cornices, eaves, gutters, fire escapes, and open stairways, may project into a
required yard, provided none of these projections shall project into a required
side yard more than 1/3 the width of the yard. Such projections shall in no
case project more than three feet into a required yard, nor shall the sum of
the lengths of these projections exceed 1/3 the length of the yard adjacent to
the building. No enclosed projection into a required yard permitted under the
provisions of this section shall exceed ten feet in length.
      (2)   Canopies and cornices, including the eaves and gutters, may project
over a required yard, provided such projections shall not project over a
required side yard more than 1/3 the width of the yard, nor more than three
feet in any case.
      (3)   Chimneys, sills, belt courses, leaders, pilasters, and lintels may
project into a required yard, provided none of these projections shall project
into a required side yard more than 1-1/2 feet.
      (4)   Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms, and ornamental features
which do not extend more than three feet above the floor level of the ground
(first) story may project into a required yard, provided these projections be
distant at least two feet from the adjacent side lot line.
   (B)   Within the limits of a required yard or court, no structure, other
than a retaining wall, shall exceed six feet in height.
   (C)   In Residence Districts, no accessory building on an interior or corner
lot, fronting upon one street only, shall be erected in any open space except a
rear yard. Accessory buildings shall not exceed one story in height, and may
occupy in the aggregate not more than 30% of a required rear yard. Except as
hereinafter provided, accessory buildings in Residence Districts shall be at
least three feet from adjoining lots located in Residence Districts, and five
feet from adjacent street lines. Farm buildings not for animals or fowl may be
erected to a height exceeding one story, provided no part of any such building
be located within 15 feet of any adjoining lot in the Residence District.
   (D)   In the Residence District, no accessory building on a corner lot,
where the rear yard is adjacent to the side yard of an adjoining lot, shall
project more than 25 feet from the interior side lot line of the corner lot.
Where the accessory building on such corner lot is distant 40 feet or more, the
requirements of this section shall not apply.
   (E)   In the Residence District, accessory buildings on a through lot may be
erected in the yard space adjacent to the street affording secondary access to
the lot, provided the buildings comply with the front and side yard requirement
of this chapter for a principal building.
   (F)   In the Residence District where the natural grade of a lot is more
than eight feet above the average established grade of the street upon which
the lot abuts, private or storage garages may be erected within any yard space,
provided the floor level of such garages shall be not more than one foot above
the established grade of such street, and at least 50% of the garage shall be
below grade. These garages shall be distant at least two feet from adjoining
lots located in the Residence District, and five feet from adjacent street
lines, except in cases where a retaining wall not less than four feet in height
is located on the lot less than five feet from an adjacent street; then the
garages may extend to the line of the retaining wall, provided the garage doors
are arranged so that at no time shall the same extend beyond any street line.
   (G)   Accessory buildings, except stables, may be erected as a part of the
principal building if all yard and court requirements of this chapter are
complied with.
   (H)   No lot shall be so reduced in area as to make any open space less than
the minimum requirements prescribed herein. This shall not be construed to
prevent the sale of an individual unit of a multiple dwelling in which all
rooms are lighted and ventilated from a street or rear yard.
   (I)   Where a lot extends through the block from street to street, the
required front yards shall be provided along each street. Additional open space
equivalent to the area of a required yard may be provided upon the lot in lieu
of a required rear yard. Where the depth of the lot is less than 175 feet, no
rear yard shall be required.
   (J)   Where a side wall of a building is not parallel with the side lot
line, or where a side yard is irregular, the average side yard width may be
considered the required width, provided the side yard shall not be narrower
than three feet nor less than 1/2 the required minimum width at any point, and
the side yard width along any unbroken section of side wall shall not be less
than that required for a wall of equivalent length and story height. Recesses,
offsets, or courts having an open end at least six feet wide abutting a
required side yard may be assumed to be a portion of the side yard for a depth
not exceeding the width of the abutting open side.
   (K)   Where the length of the side yard adjacent to the side walls of a
building is more than 50 feet, measured parallel to the adjoining side lot
line, the required minimum widths shall be increased by one inch for each foot
that such length exceeds 50 feet.
   (1)   On lots less than 50 feet wide and of record on the effective date of
this chapter, the required side yard may be reduced 1-1/2 inches for each foot
the lot is less than 50 feet in width; provided, that in no case shall the
width of the side yard be reduced to less than three feet.
   (M)   In computing the dimension of a rear yard or court adjoining a public
alley, 1/2 of the alley may be assumed to be a portion of the yard or court.
The portion of a yard opposite the open end of an outer court may be assumed to
be a portion of the court.
   (N)   In the case of an irregular, triangular, or gore-shaped lot, the
required minimum depth of a rear yard may be deemed to be the average depth;
provided, that no rear yard so averaged shall be less than ten feet or 1/2 the
required minimum depth at any point.
   (O)   On lots less than 120 feet deep and of record on the effective date of
this chapter, the depth of a required rear yard may be reduced two inches for
every foot the lot is less than 120 feet deep; provided, that in no case shall
the depth of the required rear yard be reduced to less than ten feet.
   (P)   The minimum area of an inner court shall be not less than twice the
square of its required minimum dimension.
   (Q)   Where new buildings are built between developed properties in
Residence, Multiple, and Office and Professional Districts the front yard
setback shall be the average setback of the existing buildings in the same
block, but not less than 25 feet.
('73 Code, § 150.11) (Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
                                                      MINIMUM COURT DIMENSIONS
DISTRICT MAXIMUM MINIMUM    MINIMUM SIDE MINIMUM REAR INNER COURT OUTER COURT
         HEIGHT  FRONT YARD YARD         YARD
                                                        MINIMUM COURT DIMENSIONS
DISTRICT    MAXIMUM MINIMUM     MINIMUM     MINIMUM     INNER COURT OUTER COURT
            HEIGHT  FRONT YARD  SIDE YARD   REAR YARD
                    1st story-  1st story-  1st story-  Each story  Each story
RES. & R-1  45 ft.  25 ft.      4 ft.       20 ft.      in height-  in height-
                                                        6 ft. min.  5 ft.
                  Remainder-  2nd story-  Remainder-              
                    35 ft.      6 ft.       25 ft.
                             3rd story-  Over 10 ft.             
                                9 ft.       high-6 ft.
                                4th story-  Under 10
                             12 ft.      ft. high-               
                                            4 ft.
                             Remainder-                         
                                15 ft.
                    Same as     Same as     Same as     Same as     Same as
Multiple    60 ft.  Office &    Office &    Office &    Office &    Office &
                    Professiona Professiona Professiona Professiona Professional
                    l           l           l           l
Office &            1st story-  1st story-  1st story-
Professiona 45 ft.  25 ft.      4 ft.       20 ft.                  
l
                    Remainder-  2nd story-  Remainder-  Each story  Each story
                  35 ft.      6 ft.       25 ft.      in heigh-   in height-
                                                        6 ft. min.  5 ft.
                             3rd story-             Over 10 ft.  
                                9 ft.                   high-6 ft.
                                4th story-              Under 10
                             12 ft.                 ft. high-    
                                                        4 ft.
                             Remainder-                         
                                15 ft.
                                Not         1st story-  Each story  Each story
BUS. A      45 ft.  10 ft.      required    10 ft.      in height-  in height-
                                                        4 ft. min.  3 ft.
                             Remainder-             Over 10 ft. Minimum-
                                15 ft.                  high-6 ft.  4 ft.
                                                        Under 10
                                                   ft. high-    
                                                        4 ft.
                    Not         Not         Non-res.    Each story  Each story
BUS. B      60 ft.  required    required    occupancies in height-  in height-
                                                        4 ft. min.  3 ft.
                                        1st story-  Over 10 ft. Minimum-
                                            none        high-6 ft.  4 ft.
                                            2nd story-  Under 10
                                        10 ft.      ft. high-    
                                                        4 ft.
                                        3rd story-              
                                            15 ft.
                                            Above the
                                            3rd story
                                            the yard
                                        shall                   
                                            increase at
                                            the rate of
                                            3 ft. for
                                            each story
BUS. B-1    60 ft.  10 ft.      Not         Same as     Same as     Same as BUS.
                                required    BUS. B      BUS. B      B
                    Maximum
                    front yard
BUS. B - OZ Same as setback of  Same as     Same as     Same as     Same as BUS.
            BUS. B  3 ft. from  BUS. B      BUS. B      BUS. B      B
                    existing
                    sidewalk
 
*   Note: If a residence or multiple dwelling is to be built in Bus. A-B or B1
zones - the same restrictions shall prevail as if they were being built in
their respective zones.
   For additional requirements and exceptions see:
   Heights - §
150.12(A)
   Front yard - §§
150.11(I),
150.12(A), (C), (D) and (E)
   Side yard - §§
150.11(J), (K), (L),
150.12(A) and (F)
   Rear yard - §§
150.11(M), (N), (O),
150.12(A) and (G)
   Inner court - §§
150.11(M), (P),
150.12(F)
   Outer court - §§
150.11(M) and
150.12(F)
(Am. Ord. 19-24, passed 9-17-19)
§ 150.12 HEIGHT, YARD, AND COURT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the Residence and Business "A" Districts, schools, churches,
hospitals, and sanitariums may be erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet,
and such height shall contain no more than 6 stories; provided the front, side,
and rear yards are increased an additional foot for each 2 feet the building
exceeds 45 feet in height.
   (B)   Chimneys, monumental towers, monuments, scenery lofts, cupolas, domes,
spires, false mansards, belfries, conveyors, flagpoles, masts and aerials,
water tanks, similar structures, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be
erected to any height approved by the planning commission.
   (C)   In the Residence District, when 50% or more of the lots on the same
side of the street within the same block and within 200 feet are occupied by
principal buildings, 75% or more of which conform within 5 feet to an average
alignment, no building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered in
the district so as to project beyond such average alignment; provided no front
yard need exceed 40 feet in depth in any case. The requirements of this section
shall apply only on the front lot line of a corner lot.
   (D)   In the Residence District, no alignment setback or front yard shall be
required to exceed the average of the minimum depths of the existing front
yards on the lots adjacent on each side, provided each of such lots are within
the same block and within 100 feet.
   (E)   In the Residence District, open porches shall conform to the average
alignment of the existing open porches within the same block and within 200
feet; provided no front yard need exceed 30 feet in depth in any case.
   (F)   In the Business Districts, no side yards are required, but if a side
yard is substituted for a required court it shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter for side yards in the Residence District, and for the purpose of
determining its width, the lowest story it is required to serve shall be
considered the first story.
   (G)   No rear yard shall be required for nonresidence occupancies on that
portion of any lot in the Business Districts within 50 feet of any street,
except that along the rear lot line of any lot which serves as a side lot line
of any lot in the Residence District, there shall be a rear yard the minimum
dimension of which shall conform to the provisions of this chapter for a rear
yard for nonresidence occupancies in the Business "A" District.
('73 Code, § 150.12)
§ 150.13 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each dwelling, except for the Residence District and the R-1 District,
shall have provided on the lot of the dwelling 1-1/2 parking spaces for each
family unit in the dwelling up to and including 15 units. For a dwelling of 16
units and up, 2 parking spaces will be required for each family unit in the
dwelling.
   (B)   In the Office and Professional Districts, buildings shall have
provided on the lot one car space for each 600 square feet of floor space used
for office or professional purposes, not including storage or basement areas.
However, where the basement is used as an office or apartment, the basement
area shall be included in determining parking requirements.
    (C)   In Business Districts (excepting the Business B-OZ District): For
newly constructed buildings, rebuilt buildings, or buildings that are enlarged
by 40% or more over their size on the date of adoption of this chapter or
existing business buildings which change in their occupancy or use, such
buildings shall have provided on the lot or within 300 feet of the lot the
following parking space ratios, according to the type of occupancy. Present
public parking lots and merchant-supported lots shall not be credited.
      (1)   Residential: As in division (A) above.
      (2)   Office and Professional: As in division (B) above.
      (3)   Theatres, places of assembly, restaurants, bars, beauty shops,
barber shops, etc: One parking space for every 4 seats in the establishment.
      (4)   Food stores: One parking space for every 150 square feet of sales
area in the building.
      (5)   Other retail stores (other than food stores): One parking space for
every 200 square feet of sales area in the building.
      (6)   Outdoor amusements: One parking space for each 1,000 square feet of
amusement area.
      (7)   This subsection shall not apply to the B-OZ District if the
building is within 1,200 feet of a public parking lot, pursuant to §
150.131.
   (D)   In Multiple and Office and Professional Districts: All parking must be
provided in side and rear yards. No parking will be permitted in the front yard
minimum setback area.
   (E)   Each required parking space shall be individually accessible without
the need of moving any other vehicle. Where parking lots require more than 6
parking spaces, they shall have at least one 2-way ingress and egress driveway,
or shall have a single-lane ingress specifically marked "IN," and a single-lane
egress specifically marked "OUT." Size of parking spaces, width of aisles, and
maneuvering space shall be in accordance with good practice for self-parking
facilities.
   (F)   A building permit shall be required for every parking lot constructed.
A parking plan must be submitted to the building inspector's office along with
a registered survey when making application for a building permit. The building
inspector's office shall submit the plat and survey to the secretary of the
planning commission for approval before processing can proceed further for a
building permit.
      (1)   A separate permit and license shall be required for any plumbing
work involved within or outside the property, and for any concrete work (paving
and curbs) outside the property in the public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Parking lots shall be uniformly graded to provide positive drainage
to internal drains or trench type drains at drive approaches. The drawings
submitted shall indicate the existing and proposed finished grades and
contours. Storm water drainage onto neighboring property is prohibited.
      (3)   Finished surfaces of parking lots shall be of concrete or well
compacted, and with smooth bituminous paving.
      (4)   Each parking stall shall be at least 20 feet long and at least 9
feet wide, but not less than 200 square feet in area. Each space shall be
identified by painted stripes. Concrete or bituminous wheel stops shall be
provided when abutting on neighboring property or public rights-of- way.
      (5)   Single-lane drives shall be at least 12 feet wide and double-lane
drives at least 20 feet wide. Drive approaches shall be constructed of concrete
at least 7 inches thick, 4200 p.s.i., 28-day strength.
      (6)   Parking lot lighting luminaries, if used, shall be directed away
from neighboring property and public rights-of-way. Lights and their direction
shall be indicated on building permit application drawings.
      (7)   Obscure screening, either fence or shrubbery, at least 4 feet high
shall be provided next to property lines which abut the Residence and R-
1 Districts. Such screening shall be shown on application drawings for building
permit.
      (8)   Schedule of building permit fee is available in the office of the
building commissioner.
      (9)   Parking lots within the B-OZ District are subject to the additional
requirements as set forth in §
150.131.
   (G)   Any change in use of residential buildings in Office and Professional
Districts shall require full compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
('73 Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 1328, passed 6-25-85; Am. Ord. 19-24, passed 9-17-
19)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.131 OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Overlay Zoning District is as follows:
      (1)   To promote development that emphasizes existing neighborhood
business district character;
      (2)   To promote redevelopment of the corridor in a coordinated manner;
      (3)   To provide for the long-term sustainability of the business
district and character of the community.
   (B)   Designation of Overlay Zoning District. A portion of the Business B
Overlay Zoning District shall be designated by the abbreviation “B-OZ” on the
official zoning map. All property so classified is subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Applicability of Overlay Zoning District. The B-OZ shall operate as an
overlay zone to a portion of the underlying Business B District. The
regulations governing development of the B-OZ shall apply in addition to the
regulations governing the underlyng base district. In the event of an express
conflict between the standards of the B-OZ and the Business B district, the
standards governing the B-OZ shall control.
   (D)   Overlay Zoning District regulations.
      (1)   Front yard building setback. A new building shall have a maximum
setback of three feet from the existing sidewalk.
      (2)   Parking lot standard. Any newly created parking lot adjacent to a
sidewalk shall have a three to four feet high wrought iron fence to separate
from pedestrian uses.
      (3)   Building materials. All building finishing materials for new
construction and facade remodeling that modifies at least 50% of that facade
are acceptable excluding plywood, plastics, unfinished concrete block, prefab
metal, and vinyl siding on the first floor of the building.
      (4)   Building ingress/egress. Primary entrance to the building shall
face the major public street. If a corner lot, the primary entrance shall face
the major public street. A MAJOR PUBLIC STREET is defined as the street having
the highest traffic count.
      (5)   Ground floor transparency. First floor facades facing a major
public street shall have 50% transparency; those facing a minor public street
shall have 25% transparency. A MAJOR PUBLIC STREET is defined as the street
having the highest traffic count. This section shall apply to new construction
and facade remodeling that modifies at least 50% of that facade.
      (6)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking requirements are not
required, providing the building is within 1,200 feet of a public parking lot.
      (7)   Exterior building equipment and structures.
         (a)   Rooftop HVAC. All mechanical equipment on a building rooftop
shall be screened from view of the public street and adjacent properties.
         (b)   Dumpsters. Dumpsters shall be screened by a six-foot tall opaque
fence equipped with a lockable gate.
(Ord. 19-24, passed 9-17-19)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 150.14 BOARD OF APPEALS CREATED.
   The board shall consist of 9 members, appointed by the mayor. Two shall be
appointed for one year; 2 for 2 years; 2 for 3 years; 2 for 4 years; and one
for 5 years. The term of the member of the city planning commission shall
expire at the same time as his term of the commission. A member appointed to
fill a vacancy shall serve for the unexpired term.
   (A)   The board shall have the power to exercise the jurisdiction provided
in this chapter. In exercising its jurisdiction, it shall adopt from time to
time such general rules and regulations relating to its procedure as it may
deem necessary. The board shall organize annually and elect a president, vice-
president, and secretary. The president, or in his absence, the officer
presiding, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (B)   Hearings and meetings of the board shall be public. Notice of the
hearing of each appeal case shall be given by publication one time in a
newspaper of general circulation not less than 6 days in advance of the
hearing. The board may go into executive session for discussion, but not for
vote on any case before it. The board shall act by resolution, in which at
least 5 members shall concur. Concise records and minutes shall be kept as to
all official acts of the board. A majority of the members of the board shall be
a quorum.
   (C)   Appeals to the board may be taken by any person or by any officer,
board, or commission of the municipality affected by any grant or refusal of a
building permit, or by any other decision of the commissioner of buildings,
where the decision is based upon the requirements of this chapter. The appeal
shall be filed with the board within 30 days from the ruling or decision of the
commissioner of buildings appealed from. The board may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, ruling, or break determination appealed from.
   (D)   Where the street or lot layout actually on the ground or as recorded
differs from the street and lot lines as shown on the building zone map, the
board, after due notice by registered mail to the record owners of the
property, shall interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the intent and
purpose of this chapter and map for the particular sections or district in
question.
   (E)   The board shall have the power to permit in business districts a
prohibited use, as accessory to a conforming use on the same lot, subject to
such conditions as will, in the opinion of the board, safeguard the public
health, safety, convenience, and welfare; provided that the product of such
accessory use is utilized entirely in the conforming use.
   (F)   In undeveloped sections of the city, the board may grant temporary and
conditional permits for nonconforming uses, to terminate at a date specified in
the grant, which date shall not exceed 2 years from the date of the grant;
provided that such uses are important to the development of such undeveloped
sections, and are not detrimental to the adjoining and neighboring developed
section. Such permits may be renewed, upon reapplication to the board.
   (G)   The board shall have the power to grant the extension of a
nonconforming use or building upon a lot occupied by such use or building, or
on a lot adjoining or directly across an alley; provided that such lot was
under the same ownership as the lot in question on the effective date of this
chapter, and where the extension is necessarily incident to an existing use;
and provided further that the extension shall not extend more than 25 feet
beyond a district boundary line into a more restricted district. The board
shall have the power to permit a substitution for or an extension to
nonconforming uses, but not both substitution and extension, except that, in
the Residence District, no change shall be permitted to any use prohibited in
the Business "A" District, or no change shall be permitted to any use
prohibited in the Business "B" District.
   (H)   The board shall have the power to grant the projection of any building
into a required yard, to the extent necessary to secure a building or structure
practicable in its construction and arrangement on an exceptionally narrow,
shallow, or irregular lot existing and of record on the effective date of this
chapter, or on a lot of exceptional topography.
   (I)   The board may permit the erection of a private garage prior to the
erection of a principal building on the premises.
   (J)   Where the strict application of any provision of this chapter would
result in undue hardship upon the owner of specific property, or where there is
a reasonable doubt as to any provision of this chapter or the building zone map
as applied to such property, the board shall have the power to modify such
strict application, or to interpret the meaning of this chapter so as to
relieve such hardship; provided that such modification and interpretation shall
remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter, so that
the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general
welfare will be conserved and substantial justice done.
   (K)   No permit for the establishment of a restricted parking lot in the
Residence District, in accordance with §
150.06 (K) (1), shall be issued unless approved by the board. In granting
approval, the board may impose special conditions as it shall deem desirable
under the circumstances to reduce the adverse effect of a parking lot upon the
preservation of the residential character and development of the residence
district in which such parking lot is located.
   (L)   The board may, upon application, issue a temporary and conditional
permit authorizing the maintenance, in the Residence District, of an enclosure
for horses, cows, and other livestock, not primarily for gain, at a distance of
less than 100 feet from the line of an adjoining lot in the Residence District,
if such adjoining lot is not improved with a residence building situated within
100 feet of the proposed enclosure for livestock. Such enclosure, so permitted,
shall, in every case, be not less than 100 feet from the nearest line of every
residence building, and such permit, and all right to maintain any structure or
use thereunder, shall expire whenever the enclosure shall cease to conform to
the conditions set forth in this section, or to conform with additional
limitations which may be determined by the board.
('73 Code, § 150.14)
Penalty, see § 150.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the commissioner of buildings to enforce this
chapter by the grant or refusal of building and occupancy permits in accordance
with the administration provisions of this chapter, and no building permit
shall be issued for any building which in its construction, location, or
proposed use would violate or fail to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by
specifications in duplicate, and plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing
the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and
location on the lot of the buildings and accessory buildings existing and the
lines within which the proposed building shall be erected or altered, the
existing and intended use of each building or part of a building, the number of
families or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate, and
such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. One copy of the plans shall be
returned to the owner when they have been approved by the commissioner of
buildings. All dimensions shown in these plans relating to the location and
size of the lot to be built upon shall be based on an actual survey. The lot
and location of the building thereon shall be staked out on the ground before
construction is started.
   (C)   No person shall use or permit the use of any building or premises or
part thereof, hereafter erected, created, converted, changed, or enlarged,
wholly or partly, in its use or structure, contrary to the provisions of the
building zone code. The commissioner of buildings shall not issue a permit for
excavation or construction unless the plans, specifications, and intended use
conform to the provisions of the building zone code.
('73 Code, § 150.15)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.16 PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the plan, construction,
size, or designated use of a building for which plans are filed with the
commissioner of buildings and a building permit issued before the effective
date of this zoning code; provided construction under such permit shall have
been started within 6 months, and the ground story framework, including
structural parts of the second floor, shall have been completed within one
year, and the entire building completed within 2 years after the date of the
issuance of such permit.
('73 Code, § 150.16)
§ 150.17 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FOR ZONING ONLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or permit the use of any land
or any structure, or part thereof, hereafter created, erected, converted,
enlarged, or changed, wholly or partly, in its use or construction, until the
commissioner of buildings shall have issued a certificate of occupancy. Such
certificate shall show that such structure or premises, or part thereof, and
the proposed use thereof, are in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   In the case of a nonresident occupancy, no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued by the commissioner of buildings until the sum of $1 shall have
been paid to him. The commissioner shall issue the certificate for residence
occupancies without charge. Each certificate shall show the owner's name, the
location of the premises, the operation involved, the nature of the proposed
use, and a receipt for the sum paid.
('73 Code, § 150.17)
§ 150.18 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is or is intended to be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any
building, structure, or land is or is intended to be used in violation of this
chapter, the city director of law, in addition to the remedies herein provided
for, is authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in law or
equity to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct,
or abate such violation.
('73 Code, § 150.18)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
§ 150.20 WIRELESS AND CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose, definition, and effect.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of the regulations in §§
150.20 et sec. entitled "Wireless and Cellular Telecommunications Towers and
Facilities," to:
         (a)   Accommodate the need for cellular or wireless communications
towers and facilities for the provision of personal wireless services while
restricting the location and number in the city;
         (b)   Minimize the adverse visual effects of communication towers and
support structures through proper siting, design, and screening;
         (c)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from
communications towers and support structure failure; and
         (d)   Encourage the joint use of tall structures and any new and
existing communications towers and support structures to reduce the number of
such structures needed in the future.
      (2)   Definitions. As used in this subchapter, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:
         (a)   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Man-made trees, clock towers, bell
steeples, light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting structures that
camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
         (b)   ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio,
or television communications through the sending, relaying, and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves; including but not limited to directional antennas, such
as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and omnidirectional
antennas, such as whips.
         (c)   CELLULAR COMMUNICATION SERVICES. Personal communications
accessed by means of cellular equipment and services.
         (d)   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any
building or structure, including equipment shelter, guy wire anchors, accessory
to, but not necessary for, the proper functioning of the cellular or wireless
communications antenna or tower.
         (e)   CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE. The measure of proof which will
produce a firm belief as to the allegation sought to be established.
         (f)   CO-LOCATION. The process of providing space for more than one
user on a tower or facility.
         (g)   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other structure, the
distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other
structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
         (h)   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services,
unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access
services, including cellular services.
         (i)   TALL STRUCTURES. Any structure or building, including, but not
limited to, smoke stacks, water towers, buildings over 45 feet in height,
antenna support structures of other cellular or wireless communication
companies, and other communication towers.
         (j)   TOWER. Any freestanding structure that is designed and
constructed for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-
supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes
radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier
towers, cellular telephone towers, and alternative tower structures.
         (k)   WIRELESS AND CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES. Any cables,
wires, lines, wave guides, support structure, antennas, and any other equipment
or facilities associated with the transmission or reception of communications,
as authorized by the Federal Communications Commission. However, the term
WIRELESS AND CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES shall not include:
            1.   Any satellite earth station antenna two meters in diameter or
less which is located in an area zoned industrial or which is granted approval
as a conditional use;
            2.   Any satellite earth station antenna one meter or less in
diameter, regardless of zoning category;
            3.   Antennas used by amateur radio operators.
         (l)   WIRELESS AND CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Antennas and
satellite dishes, etc. which are used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
communications signals, except as such equipment has been preempted from
regulation by the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      (3)   Effect on other zoning regulations. The provisions of any other
zoning regulation of the codified ordinances notwithstanding, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply to all wireless and cellular telecommunications towers
and facilities and shall supersede any contrary zoning regulations, including,
but not limited to, zoning regulations related to essential services, public
utilities, and height restrictions, modifications, and exceptions.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Wireless and cellular telecommunications towers and facilities
shall be located only in Business District "B" of the city and shall be
contingent upon a number of requirements being met. These criteria are in place
in an attempt to minimize adverse health, safety, public welfare, or visual
impacts through buffering, siting, design, and construction, and reduction for
the need for new towers.
      (2)   Registration of wireless and cellular telecommunications towers and
facilities is needed as required in §
150.20(C).
      (3)   Shared usage of towers and transmission facilities is encouraged
and towers should be designed to accommodate such uses, including governmental
telecommunications needs. Appropriate shared parking and access must be
provided for co-located facilities on one tower.
      (4)   The applicant must co-locate its facilities except where the
applicant can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that its facilities
cannot be located on any other existing communication tower, building, or
structure in the geographic area to be served, and that all reasonable means
have been undertaken to avoid any undue impact caused by the "clustering" of
towers within an area. The applicant must send a certified mail announcement to
all other owners of existing towers and tall structure owners in the geographic
area to be served, stating its siting needs and/or sharing capabilities. In
determining whether a facility can or cannot be located on another
communication tower, building, or structure, the city shall consider the space
available on an existing structure, the technological practicality of the co-
location, the financial feasibility of the co-location, and such other factors,
as the city deems appropriate.
      (5)   Any applicable airport land use compatibility criteria/policies and
Federal Aviation Administration regulations shall be met and requirements
presented to the city prior to facility approval.
      (6)   The owner of any tower or facility shall indemnify and hold the
city harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, causes of action, or
judgment due to any injury, including death, or damage caused by the operation
or construction of the tower or facility.
      (7)   The owner of any tower or facility shall maintain public liability
and property damage insurance that protects the owner of any tower or facility
and the city, naming the city as an additional insured, as well as the city's
officers, agents, and employees. The insurance shall provide coverage at all
times of not less than $1,000,000 for personal injury to each person and
$1,000,000 for each occurrence involving property damage plus costs of defense
or a combined single limit policy of not less than $5,000,000 covering all
claims plus costs and defense. The policy shall provide that the insurance
shall not be cancelled or materially altered without 30 days written notice
first being given to the city. If the insurance is cancelled or materially
altered, the owner of any tower or facility shall provide a new policy with the
same terms. The owner of any tower or facility shall maintain continuous,
uninterrupted coverage in the amounts required for the duration of the tower.
The owner of any tower or facility shall maintain on file with the City Auditor
a certificate of such insurance.
   (C)   Registration of wireless and cellular telecommunications facilities,
carriers, and providers.
      (1)   Registration is required by all telecommunication tower owners and
carriers and providers that offer or provide any telecommunications services
for a fee directly to the public from wireless and cellular telecommunications
facilities within the city. The registration forms shall be available from the
Building Commissioner. A fee of $100 shall be charged for the registration.
      (2)   Each owner shall inform the city within 60 days of any change of
the information set forth on the registration form.
      (3)   Wireless telecommunication towers and facilities registration must
be renewed on a biennial basis, at the beginning of each even-numbered year.
The registration must be accompanied by the $100 fee. The telecommunication
tower or facility owner/operator must submit the registration to the Building
Department of the city by February 1 of the applicable year.
   (D)   Wireless and cellular telecommunication towers and facilities
structural requirements. No wireless and cellular telecommunication tower and/
or facility shall be designed and/or sited such that it poses a potential
hazard to nearby improvements or surrounding properties. The structural
integrity of towers and facilities must meet the applicable OBBC and IEA/TIA
222 standards and be designed by a professional engineer qualified in
electrical/structural design. A building permit will only be issued when these
requirements are met to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner.
   (E)   Zoning districts and locations where wireless and cellular
telecommunication towers are permitted.
      (1)   Towers and facilities are permitted only in Business District "B"
of the city.
      (2)   Towers and facilities less than 20 feet in height or those attached
to an existing utility pole may be located elsewhere in the city if approved by
City Council.
   (F)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Any person or company intending to apply for the placement or
operation of cellular or wireless communications tower or facilities within the
city shall first schedule a pre-application conference with the Building
Commissioner. At the conference, the perspective applicant must present to the
Building Commissioner any proposed locations for siting towers and equipment.
The information should identify possible locations, tower and tall structure
heights, and the possibility of co-location.
      (2)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods, discuss a
location, and identify suitable sites that minimize any negative impact on
surrounding areas.
      (3)   Upon the completion of the pre-application conference, an
application maybe filed with the Building Commissioner. The applicant must
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   A $250 application fee will be charged for each new cellular or
wireless telecommunication tower or facility, including co-location of
equipment on existing towers. The fee shall be in addition to any applicable
building permit fee.
   (G)   Application requirements.
      (1)   The application shall specify the location of all existing towers
owned or used by the applicant within the city and outside the city limits
within a 1/4 mile radius and provide the following information for each
existing facility.
         (a)   Type and size of the tower and facilities at each location;
         (b)   The type and accessory equipment and/or building located at each
site; and
         (c)   The ground network and associated land lines utilized by each
tower.
      (2)   The application shall note the general location of planned future
towers and facilities.
      (3)   For each specific tower location shown on the plan, there must be a
schedule showing:
         (a)   Type and size of the tower facility at each location;
         (b)   The type of accessory equipment located or proposed on each
tower;
         (c)   The type, size, and location of any support structure to be used
by the tower for which the application is being submitted;
         (d)   The ground network and associated land lines, if any, utilized
by each site;
         (e)   A site plan showing the parcel on which any existing tower is
located; and
         (f)   A detailed drawing of the screening plan and related design
standards.
      (4)   Copies of all certified mail announcements to all other owners of
towers and tall structures must be attached to the application. See §
150.20(B)(4) herein.
      (5)   The application must include notification from the FAA and local
airport describing any requirements to be set forth on the tower and its
location.
   (H)   Existing wireless and cellular telecommunication towers and
facilities.
      (1)   Existing wireless and cellular telecommunications towers and
facilities which do not comply with the conditions of this chapter at the time
of its adoption shall be classified as non-conforming. The owner and/or
operator must, however, comply with any registration requirements set forth in
this chapter. Further co-location of facilities on existing towers and changes
to the towers or facilities must comply with the requirements of this chapter,
except as provided in division (H)(2) of this section.
      (2)   To encourage co-location on existing towers, the height of
nonconforming towers may be increased to 250 feet.
   (I)   Design standards for wireless and cellular telecommunications towers
and facilities.
      (1)   All telecommunications towers, support structures, and associated
facilities shall be enclosed with a six foot high solid fence or barrier and a
continuous evergreen hedge, a minimum of 30 inches in height on the outside of
the fence or barrier. The applicant is responsible for installation and
maintenance of the fence or barrier and hedge.
      (2)   Proof shall be provided by the applicant in a form satisfactory to
the Building Commissioner that the proposed installation has been approved by
and will be operated in compliance with all agencies and governmental entities
having jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the Ohio Department of
Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Communications
Commission, or the successors to their respective functions.
      (3)   Lights, beacons, or strobes of any kind shall not be permitted on
any tower, antenna, or facilities unless required by the Federal Aviation
Administration. Any such requirement must be presented to the Building
Commissioner prior to city approval of the facility. Furthermore,
telecommunication towers are discouraged from locating in areas which would
require special painting or lighting by the FAA regulations.
      (4)   Setback requirements. Towers shall be located no closer than 200
feet to a residential zoning district line, and no closer than 100 feet to a
public street right-of-way, and no closer to any property lines than 25% of the
height of the proposed tower.
      (5)   The minimum size of a parcel on which a tower is located shall be
10,000 square feet and no more than one tower may be located on a parcel.
Parcel means a separate tract of land as determined by the Hamilton County
Auditor's Office.
      (6)   No advertisement of any kind shall be installed on
telecommunication towers and/or facilities.
      (7)   The towers shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar
color, minimizing their visibility, unless otherwise required by the Federal
Communications Commission or Federal Aviation Administration. When permitted as
a conditional use, the Planning Commission may require an alternative tower
structure to blend into the existing environment. The towers shall be
maintained in accordance with
Chapter 151 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
   (J)   Design standards for wireless and cellular telecommunications
facilities as attachments to existing structures. Telecommunication facilities
on existing structures are permitted in Business District "B," subject to the
following standards :
      (1)   Existing tall structures include water towers, smoke stacks,
buildings, lighting standards, or other structures.
      (2)   Telecommunication facilities on existing structures must be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment.
      (3)   The maximum height of such telecommunication facilities shall not
exceed the lesser of 25 feet or 25 % of the height of the structure on which it
is located. If located on a building, such facilities must be set back from the
edge of the building a distance equal to the height of the facility. Any
facility which will not extend more than ten feet above the height of the
building and flush-mounted panel antennas are exempt from the setback
requirements in this subsection.
   (K)   Standards for wireless and cellular towers and facilities on publicly
owned property. Towers and facilities may be permitted on any city-owned
property subject to the following:
      (1)   The property must be leased from the city at its sole discretion.
      (2)   The maximum height and design of any tower and/or facility on city
property shall be determined by City Council.
      (3)   All design standards in §§
150.20(l) and
150.20(J) shall apply to towers and facilities under this subsection, except
for the setback requirements in §
150.20(l).
(Ord. 02-28, passed 10-15-02)
§ 150.21 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED WIRELESS AND CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS
AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   All wireless and cellular telecommunication towers and facilities
shall be removed within six months after they are no longer used. All owners or
operators of such towers and facilities shall notify the City Engineer and
Building Commissioner in writing of the date upon which such towers or
facilities are no longer used.
   (B)   Wireless and cellular telecommunication towers and facilities which
are not removed within six months after they are no longer used are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by removal of such towers
and/or facilities.
   (C)   The City Engineer or Building Commissioner shall serve written notice
on the owner or operator of the tower and/or facilities and the lessee and/or
owner of the property upon which such tower and facilities are located ordering
removal of the tower and/or facilities within 120 days of the receipt of the
notice.
   (D)   In the event that the tower and/or facilities are not removed within
120 days after written notice, then the Building Commissioner is authorized and
directed to abate such public nuisance by causing the removal of the tower and/
or facilities at the expense of the owner or lessees of the tower, facilities,
or property.
   (E)   The cost of removal of the tower and/or facilities by the city shall
be certified by the Hamilton County Auditor as a lien for assessment and
collection against the real property upon which the tower and/or facilities
were located in the same manner as general taxes and returned to the city's
general fund.
(Ord. 02-28, passed 10-15-02)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, fails to conform to any
provision thereof, or fails to obey any lawful order of the commissioner of
buildings, issued in pursuance thereof, shall be fined not more than $100. Each
day's continuance of a violation or failure shall be considered a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Ohio Building Code adopted by reference
   
151.02   Hamilton County Building Code adopted by reference
   
151.03   Building commissioner and plumbing inspector
   
151.04   Certificate of occupancy required
   
151.05   Occupancy permit required for businesses
   
151.06   City to charge same fee as county
   
151.07   Tax office filing prior to issuance of permit
   
151.08   Engineering and other fees
   
151.09   Residential Building Code of Ohio for One, Two and Three-Family
Dwellings
Property Maintenance Code
   
151.15   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.16   Revisions and additions to the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code
   
151.17   Additional revisions to the adopted International Property Maintenance
Code
   
151.18   Constitutionality not affected by partial deficiency
   
151.19   Portable storage units
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 OHIO BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The building codes known as the Ohio Building Code and the Ohio Mechanical
Code, and all amendments thereto since the adoption of those codes by the city,
are adopted as part of the Building Code of the city and are fully incorporated
by reference as though set out herein. The building commissioner shall keep a
copy of these adopted codes in the office of the building department for public
review and inspection.
('73 Code, § 151.01) (Am.Ord. 964, passed 10-8-74; Am. Ord.1048, passed 1-28-
77; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 10-10-78; Am. Ord. 98-16, passed 4-21-98; Am. Ord.
04-35, passed 12-21-04)
§ 151.02 HAMILTON COUNTY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The building code known as Article "F” of the 2005 Hamilton County Building
Code as modified by the Hamilton County Building Code, and all amendments
thereto since the adoption of this code by the city, is adopted as part of the
Building Code of the city and is fully incorporated by reference as though set
out herein. Such code shall apply only to one, two, and three family
residences. The building commissioner shall keep a copy of this adopted code in
the office of the building department for public review and inspection.
('73 Code, § 151.01) (Am. Ord. 964, passed 10-8-74; Am. Ord.1048, passed 1-28-
77; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 10-10-78; Am. Ord. 1601, passed 10-19-93; Am. Ord.
98-16, passed 4-21-98; Am. Ord. 04-35, passed 12-21-04)
§ 151.03 BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The building commissioner shall perform the duties and functions
formerly exercised by the building inspector as well as the powers and
functions incumbent upon a building commissioner, including the issuing of
permits and requiring compliance with the building code of the city.
   (B)   A plumbing inspector shall be appointed by the building commissioner,
and he shall review plans and drawings for plumbing work, inspect plumbing as
required, and perform such other duties as may be required by the Ohio Building
Code and the Hamilton County Building Code.
('73 Code, § 151.03)
§ 151.04 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the building commissioner to make, or cause to
be made, a final inspection and examination of transient and nontransient
residential buildings under this code, hereafter erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, or added to, before any such building or structure is occupied, and
if such a building has been found to have been constructed in conformity with
the provisions of this code, to issue a written certificate thereof to the
owner as provided herein.
   (B)   Such certificate of occupancy shall be obtained by the builder from
the building commissioner, before which time it shall be unlawful to occupy the
building. The builder will be obligated to certify that the building
substantially complies with all provisions of the Ohio Building Code.
   (C)   The fee for the certificate of occupancy shall be $10 for 4- to 12-
family residences, and $25 for all other residential buildings, either
transient or nontransient. The fee shall be paid before the certificate is
issued.
'73 Code, § 151.05)
§ 151.05 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   An occupancy permit shall be required prior to the occupancy of any
building, property or area in the city for the purposes of operating a
business. The occupancy permit shall constitute permission to maintain a
business occupancy in the city, and to maintain, store, or use or handle
materials or to conduct processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or
property, or to install equipment used in connection with such activities.
   (B)   A permit issued under this section shall continue until revoked or for
such a period of time as designated therein at the time of issuance. A permit
shall not be transferable and any change in business use, occupancy, operation,
or ownership shall require a new permit.
   (C)   The occupancy permit shall be obtained through the Fire Department,
who shall have the sole responsibility for conducting inspection and
establishing the conditions upon which the permit shall be issued. Possession
of a valid occupancy permit shall constitute a certification of compliance with
all other permits required by the City Unified Fire Code, with the exception of
the open burning permit, but shall not replace any other license or permit
required by law.
   (D)   The occupancy permit shall be obtained by the property owner, business
occupant, or business lessee of each building or property or portion thereof
which he occupies in the city for business purposes, prior to the start of such
business. In cotenanted office buildings it shall be the responsibility of the
building owner to obtain the required occupancy permit.
   (E)   All businesses existing in the city at the time of passage of this
section shall secure the occupancy permit herein provided for, not later than
December 31, 1981.
   (F)   Existing businesses that are now in the city will be issued a permit
without costs. All new businesses starting in the city after the date of the
passage of this section shall pay a permit fee of $50 for each occupancy permit
required.
(Ord. 1211, passed 7-21-81; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 4-21-92)
§ 151.06 CITY TO CHARGE SAME FEE AS COUNTY.
   The city shall charge the same fee as is then charged by Hamilton County for
all building and construction permits issued by the city building department
which permits are applied for after the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 1255, passed 3-8-83)
§ 151.07 TAX OFFICE FILING PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued by the building department until
the general contractor has completed and filed with the tax commissioner a
construction notification. Such notification shall be on a form approved by the
tax commissioner. The general contractor shall notify all sub-contractors of
their obligation to withhold earnings tax from all employees, to pay such
withholding to the tax office, to file a business tax return for each year that
the subcontractor conducts business in the city, and to pay all tax due.
   (B)   No final inspection and occupancy permit shall be issued by the
building department until the general contractor has completed and filed with
the tax commissioner an updated and final construction notification form.
(Ord. 00-21, passed 5-16-00)
§ 151.08 ENGINEERING AND OTHER FEES.
   (A)   When an owner or developer has submitted plans of any kind to the
Building Department for review or approval, that owner or developer shall be
responsible for the payment of all engineering and/or legal fees incurred as a
result of the submission. The rates charged shall be based upon the actual cost
incurred, pursuant to the professional services agreement(s) in effect at the
time of the submission.
   (B)   All development plans must be first submitted to the Cheviot Building
Department for review. If, in the Building Commissioner’s opinion, the plans
are likely to be approved, he may forward them to the Office of the City
Engineer for further review.
(Ord. 04-12, passed 4-20-04)
§ 151.09 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE OF OHIO FOR ONE, TWO AND THREE-FAMILY
DWELLINGS.
   The Residential Building Code of Ohio for One, Two, and Three-Family
Dwellings, Ohio Administrative Code Section 4101:8, as promulgated by the Ohio
Board of Building Standards, shall apply and be enforced within the City of
Cheviot, Ohio.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 3-20-07; Am. Ord. 07-08, passed 3-20-07)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.15 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
building commissioner of the City of Cheviot, being marked and designated as
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code
of the City of Cheviot, State of Ohio, for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing fo the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2006 edition, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this subchapter, along with the additions, insertions,
deletions, and changes, if any, that are enumerated in this subchapter.
§ 151.16 REVISIONS AND ADDITIONS TO THE ADOPTED INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY
MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The following sections of the adopted International Property Maintenance
Code are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert the words “the City of Cheviot” in place of
(NAME OF JURISDICTION).
   (B)   Section 103.5. Insert the words “The schedule of fees for inspections
and permits shall be as separately enacted by the legislative authority.” in
place of (JURISDICTION TO INSERT APPROPRIATE SCHEDULE.).
   (C)   Section 302.4. Insert the words “10 inches” in place of (HEIGHT IN
INCHES).
   (D)   Section 304.14. Insert the words “March 1” and “November 30” in place
of (DATE) and (DATE).
   (E)   Section 602.3. Insert the words “October 1” and “April 30” in place of
(DATE) and (DATE).
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-6-07)
§ 151.17 ADDITIONAL REVISIONS TO THE ADOPTED INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CODE.
   (A)   In accordance with Section 103 of the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code, the “code official” shall be the Cheviot building
commissioner. The “code official” shall have the authority to appoint a “deputy
code official” who shall be known as the property maintenance inspector. All
such persons shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of the code.
Law enforcement officers of the Cheviot police department may also enforce the
provisions of the code. The fire chief and his designated subordinates may
enforce the provisions of Chapter 7 of the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code (fire safety requirements).
   (B)   The “board of appeals” which is listed in Section 111.2 of the adopted
International Property Maintenance Code shall be the Cheviot zoning board of
appeals as set out in §
150.14 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances, and any conflicts in size or makeup
of the board shall be resolved in favor of §
150.14. The procedure for appeal shall be as specified in the remainder of
Section 111 of the adopted International Property Maintenance Code.
   (C)   With respect to the enforcement of prohibitions of tall grasses and
weeds, the code officials, at their option, may proceed under Section 302.4 of
the adopted International Property Maintenance Code or under §
131.05 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-6-07)
§ 151.18 CONSTITUTIONALITY NOT AFFECTED BY PARTIAL DEFICIENCY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of §§
151.15 et seq. or §
151.99, and the legislation incorporated by reference, is for any reason held
to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of those sections. The Council of the City of Cheviot hereby
declares that it would have passed those sections, and each division, clause,
or phrase thereof, regardless of the fact that any one or more sections,
divisions, sentences, clauses, and phrases be declared unconstitutional.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-6-07)
§ 151.19 PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS.
   (A)   Portable storage units are defined as storage containers that are in
excess of 100 cubic feet in volume and are typically transported from place to
place on the bed or frame of a truck or trailer. They may be of a type with
wheels or with no wheels.
   (B)   Portable storage units are designed to provide temporary storage for
persons who are moving or for similar short-term purposes. It shall be unlawful
to use a portable storage unit for long-term or permanent storage in the city.
   (C)   Portable storage units shall not be placed or allowed to be placed
upon any property in the residential zones of the city for more than a total of
14 days during any one calendar year. The 14 day limitation is a total limit
for one unit or a series of units utilized in any one calendar year. A property
owner on whose property a portable storage unit is located is rebuttably
presumed to have allowed the portable storage unit to be placed upon his
property.
   (D)   When used, portable storage units shall be placed on a paved surface
of the property and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from any right-of-
way, access easement, or edge of street pavement, whichever is the greatest
setback.
   (E)   If the portable storage unit is being used by a person who has
suffered a major calamity, such as a fire, flood, tornado, or other act of God,
the 14 day time limitation imposed by division (C) above may be extended by a
special permit obtained from the Building Department. Such extension shall not
exceed 60 days.
   (F)   Violations of this section shall be brought to the attention of the
offender in accordance with Sections 106 and 107 of the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Cheviot, State of Ohio. A failure by the offender to
correct the problem within the time specified in the order shall be a violation
of Section 106.3 of the Property Maintenance Code, and, upon conviction, the
offender shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
151.99.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-1-08) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates Section 106.3 of the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code, by failing to comply with the order of a code official, or,
if no order is required, by violating any provision of the code, shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and punished in accordance with the penalties
specified in §
130.99 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances. Each day that a violation continues
after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates Section 108.5 of the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
punished in accordance with §
130.99 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-6-07)
CHAPTER 152: ELECTRIC CODE; UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of National Electric Code
Underground Electrical Distribution
   
152.05   Installation of facilities
   
152.06   Exceptions
   
152.07   Definitions
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   The National Electric Code, 1971 edition, and all amendments thereto,
published by the National Fire Prevention Association, is adopted by the city.
Three copies of the code have been and are now filed in the office of the
safety-service director. The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out in length herein, and, from the date on which this code of ordinances
takes effect, the provisions thereof shall control within the city limits.
(Ord. 965, passed 10-8-74; amend Ord. 1046, passed 1-28-77)
UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
§ 152.05 INSTALLATION OF FACILITIES.
   In all new residential subdivisions containing 12 or more contiguous lots:
   (A)   The Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company shall install the:
      (1)   Electric distribution facilities; and
      (2)   Facilities for street lighting, serving such subdivisions
underground within or along the right-of-way of existing or proposed public
streets, provided, prior to installation of such facilities, the developer pays
the company therefor in accordance with the company's schedule, and gives the
company a written commitment to pay the company for the cost of any relocation
of such facilities, and to provide all easements necessary for relocation and
for any extension.
   (B)   The developer shall provide necessary easements to the company at no
cost to the company;
   (C)   All service lines connecting the ultimate customer's service entrance
equipment to the company's main line facilities shall be installed by the
developer, at the developer's cost, to a point determined by the company, the
actual connection at the company's main line to be made by the company;
   (D)   The company is permitted to install pad-mounted transformers, and
nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the installation of
underground transformers, except on payment of an additional charge therefor in
accordance with the company's schedule; and
   (E)   Prior to the paving of any street, the developer, at its cost, shall
install conduit crossovers for electric break facilities as specified by the
company.
('73 Code, § 152.05)
§ 152.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the installation or
maintenance of street lighting poles or standards, or to require the
undergrounding of existing overhead or other electric facilities.
('73 Code, § 152.06)
§ 152.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   DEVELOPER. Any owner, builder, or developer.
   ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES. Only those distribution facilities serving
homes in subdivisions of the kind described above and does not include
distribution or transmission facilities which deliver power through
subdivisions, or transmission facilities which terminate in subdivisions.
   FACILITIES. Wires, cables, transformers, and appurtenances.
   NEW. Residential subdivisions mentioned in this chapter means such
subdivisions built after the effective date of this chapter.
('73 Code, § 152.07)
CHAPTER 153: DISH-TYPE ANTENNAE
Section
   
153.01   Location and height restrictions; building permit required
§ 153.01 LOCATION AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Dish-type satellite signal receiving stations, hereinafter "stations",
may be located within the city subject to the regulations and restrictions
contained herein.
   (B)   Stations shall not be linked to receivers which are not located on the
same lot as the station.
   (C)   The station shall be located in the rear yard and behind the principal
dwelling or structure located on the lot. The station shall be located so that
no matter which way it is turned or otherwise used, all parts of the station
will be set back at least 10 feet from the inner side yard lines and shall be
set back from the rear lot lines not less than 20 feet or one-half the depth of
the rear yard, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The height of the station, should the dish antenna be turned
perpendicular to the ground, shall not extend above 15 feet; and the maximum
diameter of any dish antenna shall not exceed 12 feet. No installation or
erection of a station shall commence until a building permit is obtained.
(Ord. 1247, passed 9-28-82)
CHAPTER 154: CUT AND FILL REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Issuance of permits and exemptions
   
154.04   Correction of hazardous conditions
   
154.05   Plans and specifications
   
154.06   Supervision by registered professional engineer or architect
   
154.07   Prohibition of certain excavations, fills, or grades
   
154.08   Setbacks of tops and toes
   
154.09   Protection against erosion and sedimentation
   
154.10   Protection and relocation of sewers
   
154.11   Bond requirement
   
154.12   Fee schedule
   
154.13   Permit expiration
   
154.14   Notification by permit holder
   
154.15   Suspension of operations
   
154.16   City liability
   
154.17   Building permit issuance
   
154.18   Appeal to Planning Commission
   
154.19   Land use regulations
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard life, limb, property, and the
public welfare, and the preservation of the natural environment and the
stability of hillsides by regulating excavating and filling of land.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHITECT. An architect registered in the State of Ohio to practice in the
field of architecture.
   BORROW. Earth material acquired from an off-site location for the use in
grading on a site.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The person employed by the city in the capacity of
Building Commissioner or his authorized agents or employees, to perform
specific duties in the review and enforcement of this chapter.
   CITY ENGINEER. The persons, firms, or corporations, or their authorized
agents or employees, employed, or designated by the city to perform engineering
services for the city.
   EARTH MATERIAL. Any rock, fill, or natural soil and/or combination thereof.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A full member in good standing of the Association of
Engineering Geologists or the American Institute of Professional Geologists.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity, or other natural process.
   EXCAVATION. Any artificial or mechanical act by which earth, sand, rock,
gravel, or other similar material is dug into, cut, quarried, removed,
displaced, relocated, or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom. The difference between a point on the original ground and a
designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. The material removed in
excavation.
   FILL. Any artificial or mechanical act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock,
or any other material is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved
to a new location above the natural surface of the ground or on top of the
stripped or excavated surface and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom. The difference in elevation between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of higher elevation on the final grade. The material
used to make a fill.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Existing ground as shown on the most recent published
editions of the City of Cincinnati and Hamilton County Metropolitan Topographic
Survey sheets prior to the date of this chapter.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A civil engineer registered in the State
of Ohio to practice in the field of civil engineering.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported or has been moved from its original site or origin by air,
water, or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, upon
which excavation or filling is, has been, or will be performed.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
the arc tangent of vertical distance, y to horizontal x, where x and y are in
the same linear units.
   SOIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer, registered as a professional engineer in
the State of Ohio, experienced and knowledgeable in the practice of soil
engineering.
   SOIL ENGINEERING. The application of the principles of soil mechanics in the
investigation, evaluation, and design of civil works involving the use of earth
materials and the inspection and testing of the construction thereof.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. A full member in good standing of the Soil Society of
America and who has special knowledge and training in the physical, chemical,
and biological sciences applicable to soil.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, the owner of any property or in possession or control of
any property, shall cause, permit or allow any excavation or filling to be done
on such property unless a permit has been issued by the Building Commissioner
for such excavating or filling except that no permit shall be required for:
      (1)   Normal cemetery operations of opening or closing graves;
      (2)   Public work performed by or under control of the Building
Commissioner, except for excavating or filling performed outside the project
work limits;
      (3)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of a registered
professional engineer, soil engineer, engineering geologists, soil scientist,
or architect where incidental to the practice of architecture and exploratory
excavations by a contractor or builder provided they are not made in a slope
steeper than one vertical to five horizontal and are promptly and properly
filled;
      (4)   Temporary excavations for wells, tanks, vaults, tunnels, sign
foundations, and trenches for sewers, water lines, gas lines, electric lines,
and other underground utilities;
      (5)   Subject to the provisions of §
154.10, any excavation that does not exceed five feet in vertical depth at its
deepest point or 100 cubic yards per each 5,000 square feet of site area,
whichever is the more restrictive;
      (6)   Subject to the provisions of §
154.10, any fill that does not exceed five feet in vertical depth at its
deepest point or 100 cubic yards per each 5,000 square feet of site area,
whichever is the most restrictive, and is placed on natural terrain with a
slope flatter than one vertical to five horizontal and does not result in a
finished slope steeper than one vertical to three horizontal;
      (7)   Subject to the provisions of §
154.10, any excavation for a basement and footings of a building authorized by
a valid building permit, provided the excavation does not exceed 12 feet in
vertical depth at its deepest point or 350 cubic yards per each 5,000 square
feet of site area, whichever is the more restrictive, and is made in existing
terrain with a slope flatter than one vertical to ten horizontal and the
subsequent filling with this excavated material on the same site, provided the
fill does not exceed five feet in vertical depth at its deepest point or 350
cubic yards per each 5,000 square feet of site area, whichever is the more
restrictive, and is placed on existing terrain with a slope flatter than one
vertical to ten horizontal and does not result in a finished slope steeper than
one vertical to three horizontal.
   (B)   Where a succession of small excavations or fills individually not
requiring a permit constitutes a continuing operation on a property and the
accumulation of such excavations or fills on that property will exceed five
feet in depth or 100 cubic yards per each 5,000 square feet of site area, a
permit shall be required.
   (C)   No excavating or filling pursuant to divisions (A)(1) through (A)(7)
hereof shall cause any slope to become unstable, impose loads which may effect
the safety of structures or slopes, interfere with adequate drainage for the
site area and the drainage area of land tributary to the site, obstruct,
damage, or adversely affect existing sewerage or drainage, public or private,
cause a stagnant pond of water to form, or cause erosion or sedimentation.
   (D)   The exemptions contained in division (A) do not apply to any
operations pursuant to §
154.09.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.04 CORRECTION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   Whenever the Building Commissioner, with the concurrence of the City
Engineer, determines that any existing excavation, fill, slope, or other
conditions has become a hazard, or endangers the public health and safety or
any public or private property or adversely affects the safety, usability, or
stability of any public way or drainage channel or has caused detrimental
erosion or sedimentation, he shall order the owner or person in control of the
property on which such conditions exists to correct the condition. The owner or
person in control of the property shall promptly proceed to correct the
condition creating such a hazard in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and in accordance with the order of the Building Commissioner. The
owner or person in control of the property, upon receipt of the order of the
Building Commissioner shall also, within seven days, apply for and obtain a
permit.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.05 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a permit for excavating or
filling only on the basis of three complete sets of plans and specifications
submitted to and approved by him and approved by the City Engineer. A separate
permit shall be required for each site. The plans and specifications submitted
with the permit application shall:
      (1)   Include the owner's name and address;
      (2)   Include a plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the
proposed work;
      (3)   Include a contour map of the affected area showing the existing and
proposed contours at five foot intervals;
      (4)   Show the proposed amount of excavation or fill in cubic yards;
      (5)   Show the location of any existing and proposed streets;
      (6)   Show the location of any existing and proposed buildings or
structures on the subject property and within 30 feet of subject property;
      (7)   Show the location of any existing watercourses, drainage, and sewer
systems serving the property;
      (8)   Show existing and proposed drainage structures, walls, cribbing,
and surface protection, and any necessary temporary earth restraining
installations;
      (9)   Show a plan for temporary and permanent drainage of the soils from
erosion;
      (10)   Describe the proposed method for the protection of the soils from
erosion;
      (11)   Show how surplus excavated fill will be disposed of;
      (12)   Show additional information as may reasonably be required by the
Building Commissioner.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer or an architect where the work contemplated by the plans
and specifications is incidental to the practice of architecture and shall in
addition to the requirements of division (A) herein:
      (1)   Include a report showing the results of surface and subsurface
exploration, conditions of the land, and procedures for performing the
operation;
      (2)   Show plans of all drainage provisions which shall be of such design
to adequately handle the surface runoff, together with a map showing the
drainage area of all land tributary to the site, and estimated cubic foot per
second runoff of the area served by any drain computed in accordance with
current acceptable standards;
      (3)   Include a specification for the borrow material or fill material
and the method to be used for and the degree of its proposed compaction;
      (4)   Show proposed preparation of existing ground surface to receive
fill;
      (5)   Show proposed terraces and ditches where necessary to control
surface drainage and debris;
      (6)   Show proposed subsurface drainage if necessary for stability;
      (7)   Show plans for all retaining walls, cribbing, vegetative
provisions, erosions and sediment control measures, together with location of
temporary or permanent fencing and other protective devices to be constructed
in connection with, or as a part of the proposed plan;
      (8)   Show a timing schedule and sequence indicating the anticipated
starting and completion dates of the development sequence - stripping or
clearing, rough grading and construction, final grading, and vegetative
establishment and maintenance and the time of exposure of each area prior to
the completion of effective erosion and sediment control measures.
   (C)   If the Building Commissioner and City Engineer shall be satisfied that
the proposed excavation or fill will not cause any hazards, then in such event
the Building Commissioner shall issue a permit authorizing the excavation or
fill.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.06 SUPERVISION BY REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER OR ARCHITECT.
   Excavation and fill in the field shall be supervised by a registered
professional engineer or architect representing the owner or developer. The
registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a summary report to
the Building Commissioner upon the completion of operations. The Building
Commissioner may require interim reports from the engineer or architect when
the operations extend beyond a month. Cost of supervision is to be borne by the
owner or developer.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.07 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN EXCAVATIONS, FILLS OR GRADES.
   No permit shall be issued for an excavation or fill to be made with a face
steeper in slope than one vertical to three horizontal except that the Building
Commissioner, with the written approval of the City Engineer, may permit an
excavation or fill to be made with steeper face if an applicant demonstrates
satisfactorily by means of appropriate soil exploration and analysis and the
written opinion of a registered soil engineer that the materials are capable or
standing on a steeper slope without creating any of the hazards described in §§
154.03 and
154.04.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.08 SETBACKS OF TOPS AND TOES.
   The tops and toes of excavation and the slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries and structures as far as necessary for the safety of
adjacent properties and adequacy of foundation support and to prevent damage as
a result of water runoff.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.09 PROTECTION AGAINST EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION.
   (A)   In the event that any developer shall intend to make changes in the
contour of any land proposed to be subdivided, developed, or changed in use by
grading, excavating or the removal or destruction of the natural topsoil,
trees, or other vegetative covering thereon the same shall only be accomplished
after the owner of said land or his agent has submitted to the Building
Commissioner for approval a plan for erosion and sedimentation controls, unless
there has been a prior determination by the Building Commissioner that such
plans are not necessary.
   (B)   Such plans shall contain adequate measures for control of erosion and
siltation where necessary, using the guidelines and policies contained herein.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall review these plans as submitted, and
shall take necessary steps to insure compliance by the developer with these
plans as finally approved.
   (D)   Requirements.
      (1)   Three sets of plans for the control of erosion and sedimentation
shall be submitted to the Building Commissioner at the time the final
development drawings are submitted.
      (2)   Measures to be taken to control erosion and sedimentation shall be
described and provided for in the construction agreement and the estimated cost
of accomplishing such measures shall be determined by the Building
Commissioner.
      (3)   At the building permit application stage, a review will be
conducted to insure conformance with the plan as approved.
      (4)   The Building Commissioner shall make a continuing review and
evaluation of the methods used and the overall effectiveness of the erosion and
sedimentation control program.
   (E)   Suggested control measures. The following control measures should be
used for an effective erosion and sediment control plan:
      (1)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at any one
time during development.
      (2)   When land is exposed during development, the exposure should be
kept to the shortest practical period of time.
      (3)   Where necessary, temporary vegetation and/or mulching should be
used to protect areas exposed during development.
      (4)   Sediment basins (debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps)
should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from
land undergoing development.
      (5)   Provisions should be made to effectively accommodate the increased
run-off caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development.
      (6)   The permanent final vegetation and structures should be installed
as soon as practical in the development.
      (7)   The development plan should be fitted to be the topography and
soils so as to create the least erosion potential.
      (8)   Wherever feasible, natural vegetation should be retained and
protected.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.10 PROTECTION AND RELOCATION OF SEWERS.
   (A)   If it is necessary to adjust, relocate, add to, or otherwise modify
the existing sewer system serving the area affected by an excavation or fill
operation, for the purposes of providing drainage of the affected area or
protecting the existing sewer system from damage, the Building Commissioner
shall issue a permit in accordance with this chapter only if the applicant for
the permit obtains a permit to provide, relocate, or modify the sewer system
for the affected area at the expense of the applicant and grant such easements
as may be necessary.
   (B)   In places where existing sewerage is adequate, but in the opinion of
the City Engineer is of doubtful strength to carry additional loading, the
Building Commissioner shall issue a permit in accordance with this chapter only
if the applicant for the permit provides a bond of corporate surety authorized
to do business in the State of Ohio naming the city as obligee thereof,
covering replacement cost of the sewer and guaranteeing that the proposed fill
will not damage the sewer for a period of one year after the fill is completed.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.11 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   When in the opinion of the Building Commissioner with the concurrence of the
City Engineer the termination before completion of a proposed excavation or
fill operation would create an actual or potential hazard to the public, the
Building Commissioner, with the concurrence of the City Engineer, prior to
issuing the permit, shall require a bond in an amount as determined by the
Commissioner and Engineer sufficient to cover the estimated cost of restoration
of any affected land or to cover the cost of performance of the operations
under such permit, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.12 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Before issuing a permit, the Building Commissioner or his designee
shall collect a fee, the amount of which shall be $75 for the first 100 cubic
yards (or fraction thereof) plus $10 for each additional 100 cubic yards (or
fraction thereof) of earth or other materials moved, except that no fee shall
be collected for work by any public agency.
   (B)   Before accepting a request for a waiver or modification, or
application for a permit, pursuant to §
154.07, the Building Commissioner or his designee shall collect from the person
making such request or application a deposit of $100 to be applied to the
charges of the City Engineer for the engineering services provided pursuant to
such sections; and no waiver or modification shall be given, or permit issued,
until all charges of the City Engineer have been paid by the person making the
request or application.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.13 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every 12 months after the issuance of an excavation and fill permit,
and on completion of operations, the holder of a permit for an excavation or a
fill comprising of the movement of 500 cubic yards (or more) of material must
file with the Building Commissioner a certificate, prepared by a registered
surveyor, registered architect, or professional engineer, stating the
quantities of materials placed or removed since the issuance of the permit and
stating that the work has been conducted in compliance with §§
154.05 through
154.10 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances and in compliance with all conditions
of the permit.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may revoke an excavation and fill permit if
the holder of the permit has failed to comply with §§
154.05 through
154.10 or if the Commissioner determines that the operations have become
offensive or objectionable due to erosion, siltation, dust, or increased
stormwater runoff.
   (C)   Work must be completed within one year from the date of permit
issuance. The Building Commissioner may extend the time for completion of the
work up to six months if the Commissioner determines, after conducting an
administrative hearing, that the operations have been conducted in compliance
with the permit and have not been offensive or objectionable due to erosion,
siltation, or dust. The Building Commissioner has the duty to notify the owner
or occupant of the subject property, and any owner or occupant of property
abutting the subject property, and any community or neighborhood association or
organization whose boundaries include or abut the subject property. Notice must
be sent by ordinary U.S. mail at least ten days in advance of the date set for
the administrative hearing. No more than two extensions shall be granted.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90; Am. Ord. 02-34, passed 12-3-02)
§ 154.14 NOTIFICATION OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   The person to whom a permit is issued shall notify the Building
Commissioner:
   (A)   Of the time of commencement of operations under such permit, 48 hours
in advance of such time where excavation will enter a public right of way, and
in all other instances 24 hours in advance of such time;
   (B)   Immediately of any delay in the time of commencement of which
notification has been given as provided in division (A);
   (C)   When the operation is completed;
   (D)   Prior to commencement of operations, of the locations of any borrow
sites or any disposal sites for excess materials.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.15 SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS.
   The Building Commissioner shall order operations under a permit for
excavation or fill suspended whenever he determined, with the concurrence of
the City Engineer, that such operations are endangering the public health or
safety. Such suspensions shall remain in effect until the condition or
conditions causing same are successfully remedied to the satisfaction of the
Building Commissioner and City Engineer. The Building Commissioner, with the
concurrence of the City Engineer, shall also have the authority to order
stopped any operations contract to the terms and conditions of a permit issued
under this chapter. Such stoppage shall remain in effect until the operations
are remedied to be in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.16 CITY LIABILITY.
   Issuance of a permit or any action by the Building Commissioner under this
chapter shall not create in the city, its officers, agents, or employees any
liability or responsibility for injury to persons or property caused by
operations or conditions created pursuant to such permits. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner or person in control of
property from liability for injury to persons or property.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.17 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Building Commissioner shall withhold the issuance of any permit under
his authority for operation on property subject to an excavation or fill
operation until the owner or the persons in control have complied with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.18 APPEAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Any person who has a bona fide controversy with the Building
Commissioner and whose rights have been materially affected by any decision of
the Building Commissioner in the issuance or denial of a permit as provided
herein or in the administration of the provisions of this chapter, shall within
30 days from the issuance or denial of such permit, be permitted to file with
the Building Commissioner such person's appeal to the Planning Commission as
hereafter provided.
   (B)   The appeal shall be based upon one or both of the following grounds,
to-wit:
      (1)   That the action of the Building Commissioner was erroneous or
constituted an erroneous application of the provisions of this chapter, related
laws and ordinances, or was otherwise contrary to law;
      (2)   That the action of the Building Commissioner imposes an undue
hardship on the complainant and a modified application or an alternative
arrangement is available and feasible, whereby the hardship can be relieved
without defeating the purpose and intent of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The complainant shall set forth in his petition on appeal the
interpretation, ruling, or order appealed from, and the provisions of this
chapter and related laws and ordinances involved, and shall state wherein the
interpretation, ruling, or order is erroneous. If the appeal is based on the
ground of hardship, the petition shall show the nature of the hardship, and
shall point out what kind of modified application or alternative arrangement
can be put into effect which will relieve the hardship without defeating the
purposes and intent of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No appeal petition shall be accepted for filing unless the complainant
shall, at the time of filing, deposit with the Building Commissioner the sum of
$100 to partially compensate the city in the event the Building Commissioner is
sustained in whole or in part, for the direct and indirect expenditures, costs,
and extra work occasioned by the filing and prosecution of the appeal.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall have full authority to affirm, modify,
reverse, or set aside the interpretation, ruling, or order appealed from, and
its decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
§ 154.19 LAND USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.
   APPROVING AGENT. The Building and Planning Department of the city, or its
representative.
   BEDROCK. In place solid rock.
   BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill
is to be placed.
   COMPACTION. The densification of a fill by mechanical means.
   CUT. An excavation and the material removed in an excavation.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. Any contiguous area included within the scope of this
section and owned, planned, or developed by one owner or as one unit, upon
which earth disturbing activities are planned or under way.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A written and/or graphical description, acceptable to the
approving agent of methods for controlling accelerated erosion and accelerated
runoff from a development area.
   DITCH. An open channel either dug or natural for the purpose of drainage or
irrigation with intermittent flow.
   DRAINAGEWAY. An area of concentrated water flow other than a river, stream,
ditch, or grassed waterway.
   EARTH DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any grading, excavating, filling, or other
alteration of the earth's surface where natural or man-made ground cover is
destroyed.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by running water, wind, ice, or
other geological agents, including such processes as gravitational creep,
detachment, and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind, ice, or
gravity.
      (1)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal, natural,
or geological erosion, primarily as a result of an influence of the activities
of man.
      (2)   GULLY EROSION. The erosion process whereby water accumulates in
narrow channels and over short periods during and immediately after rainfall or
snow or ice melt, and actively removes the soil from this narrow area to
considerate depths such that the channel would not be obliterated by normal
smoothing or tillage operations.
      (3)   NATURAL EROSION (GEOLOGICAL EROSION). Wearing away of the earth's
surface by water, ice, or other natural agents under natural environmental
conditions of climate, vegetation, etc., undisturbed by man.
      (4)   NORMAL EROSION. The gradual erosion of land used by man which does
not greatly exceed natural erosion.
      (5)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several inches deep are formed. Rill erosion occurs mainly on recently
disturbed soils.
      (6)    SHEET EROSION. The removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil from
the land surface by wind or runoff water.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
   LANDSLIDE.  The rapid downward and outward movement of large rock material
or soil mass under the influence of gravity in which the movement of soil mass
occurs along an interior surface of sliding.
   MULCHING. The application of suitable materials on the soil surface to
conserve moisture, hold soil in place, and aid in establishing plant cover.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, agency,
unincorporated association, municipal corporation, county or state agency, the
federal government, or any combination thereof.
   POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, or radiological integrity of air or water.
   PRIVATE WATERS. Water within private ponds and lakes on single properties.
   PUBLIC WATERS. The water within lakes, rivers, streams, ditches, and other
water leaving a single property.
   RAINFALL INTENSITY. The severity of a storm of a given duration and
frequency, expressed as inches of rainfall per hour.
   RIP-RAP. Stone placed on earth surfaces such as the face of a dam or the
bank of a stream for protection against the action of water (waves) and grouted
or cemented in place.
   ROCK CHANNEL PROTECTION. Stone placed on earth surfaces such as the face of
a dam or the bank of a stream for protection against the action of water
(waves).
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and eventually is returned to streams.
      (1)   ACCELERATED RUNOFF. Increased runoff due to less permeable surface
area primarily caused by the activities of man.
      (2)   PEAK RATE RUNOFF. The maximum rate of runoff for any storm.
      (3)   VOLUME OF RUNOFF. The total quantity of runoff for any storm.
   SLIP. Slip has the meaning as "landslide" above.
   SLOUGHING. A slip or downward movement of an extended layer of soil
frequently resulting from the undermining action of water (waves), or the earth
disturbing activity of man.
   SOIL LOSS. Soil moved from a given site by the forces of erosion and
redeposited at another site on land or in a body of water.
   STORM DURATION. The average length of time that a storm of a given frequency
and intensity can be expected to last. For the purpose of runoff computation it
is taken as the time of concentration.
   STORM FREQUENCY. The average period of time within which a storm of given
duration and intensity will be equaled or exceeded; also expressed as a
percentage of likelihood that a storm of a given intensity and duration will
reoccur within one year.
   STREAM. A body of water running or flowing on the earth's surface or the
channel in which such flow occurs. Flow may be seasonally intermittent.
   SWALE. A low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TERRACE. A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope
surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook, creek,
channel, or ditch for conveying, whether natural or man-made.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the control and
management of storm water drainage and storm water detention/retention, in
order to protect life, limb, and property and to preserve the environment and
hillside stability from earth disturbing activities within the jurisdiction of
the city unless otherwise excluded by this section or unless expressly excluded
by state law.
      (2)   Compliance with the provisions of this section shall not relieve
any person from any civil liability arising out of ownership and control of his
property, nor shall such compliance or errors committed by those attempting to
comply with this section impose any liability on the city for damage caused to
any person or property.
      (3)   If any clause, section, or provision of this section is declared to
be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   Land use regulations.
      (1)   There shall be required an informal preliminary approval of all
land use plans by the approving agent before detailed storm water management
and sediment control and site plans are submitted to the approving agent for
final approval by the Planning Commission. No person shall cause or allow earth
disturbing activities on a development area except in compliance with the
standards and criteria as set forth in this section pertaining to storm water
drainage and detention/retention, as specified in Attachment A of Ordinance 01-
04, which is incorporated by reference into this section, unless otherwise
excluded by this section.
      (2)   The following shall be exempted from the requirements of this
section:
         (a)   Accepted agricultural practices.
         (b)   Grading as a maintenance or landscaping measure on existing
developed residential lots.
         (c)   Test boring and other exploratory excavation.
         (d)   Single lot development in an approved residential subdivision.
         (e)   Any other land use that is exempted, but only to the extent that
it is exempted, by the approving agent.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   Before initiating any design, the owner or his representative shall
confer informally with the approving agent in order to insure proper design in
compliance with good engineering practice and the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Plans shall contain at least the following information:
         (a)   Vicinity sketch.
         (b)   Property lines and easements.
         (c)   Existing and proposed topographical slope equal to one foot
intervals for 0% to 5% slope, two foot intervals for 5% to 10% slope and five
foot intervals for greater than 10% slope.
         (d)   Existing and proposed significant man-made and natural features
on the site.
         (e)   Existing significant man-made and natural features on all
adjacent property within 100 feet of the development site.
         (f)   Existing and proposed ground cover.
         (g)   The storm water drainage and detention/retention computations,
as specified in Attachment A of Ordinance 01-04, incorporated by reference into
this section, either attached to the plan or on a separate sheet.
         (h)   The project name, the owner's name, the scale, the direction
arrow, the date, legend, and an engineer's stamp.
         (i)   A time schedule for completion of work.
         (j)   Other details as directed by Attachment A of Ordinance 01-04,
incorporated by reference into this section.
      (3)   The approving agent may waive any or all of the above specific
requirements for plan detail based on any information known by the approving
agent.
      (4)   In order to obtain the formal approval of the approving agent,
there must be submitted three sets of land use plans to the approving agent,
and the approving agent must make the proper determinations within 30 days of
the submission of the plans. Any alterations or re-submissions of land use
plans shall follow the same procedures as the original submission of the plans.
Reasonable review fees shall be established by the approving agent and shall be
paid in advance by the developer when possible.
      (5)   In order to guarantee the proper completion of work, the approving
agent may require a performance bond for the development, subject to the
mandatory requirements of performance bonds as specified elsewhere in the
Cheviot Planning and Zoning Ordinances. The amount of the bond shall be equal
to the approximate cost to construct the required storm water management
facilities and the erosion control measures.
      (6)   The right of the developer to appeal any adverse decision by the
approving agent shall be provided for as follows:
         (a)   Any appeal from a decision of the approving agent shall be
commenced by filing a written Notice of Appeal, on forms to be provided by the
Planning Commission, with the Secretary of the Planning Commission. The Notice
of Appeal must be filed within 30 days after the written decision of the
approving agent has been mailed to the last known address of the proposed owner
or developer.
         (b)   Reasonable fees for appeals shall be established by the Planning
Commission, which shall be the body hearing all appeals. The Commission may
require the approving agent to document the reasons for its refusal to approve
the plans. The appeal hearing shall be scheduled within 60 days of the date
that it is filed.
         (c)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person and may be
represented by an attorney. The Planning Commission, after the appeal, may
affirm, reject, or modify the decision of the approving agent. However, the
only criteria for appeal and the only justification for rejecting or modifying
the decision of the approving agent are either:
            1.   Proof of error made by the approving agent plus proof of
compliance with this section by the owner or developer; or
            2.   Proof that total compliance with this section will create an
undue financial burden upon the owner or developer plus proof that the plan as
submitted by the owner or developer provides feasible near-compliance with this
section, plus proof that the public health, safety, and welfare will not be
impaired by the plan as submitted.
      (7)   The approving agent shall be under a continuing duty to review and
evaluate the methods used and the overall effectiveness of this section, and to
make reasonable attempts to verify the continuing compliance with this section
by individuals whose land usage is governed by the terms of this section. The
approving agent may require appropriate legal documents to be prepared and
executed by the owner and the developer in order to assure that future owners
of the land being developed will continue to comply with the provisions of this
section. In the event that the approving agent determines that reasonable
grounds exist to conclude that the terms of this section are being violated, or
that hazardous conditions exist, then the approving agent may either order the
developer to cease operations pending further investigation, to bring the land
use development into compliance with this section, or both, or to initiate an
appropriate legal action. These rights of the approving agent are not
exclusive.
      (8)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and fined not more than
$100 for each offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be separately punishable
under this section.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 5-1-01)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person being the owner, agent of the owner, or having control of any
property, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
conform to any of the provisions thereof, or fails to obey any order of the
Building Commissioner or his duly authorized agent shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a penalty of a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000. Each and every day on which
such person continues to violate any of the provisions of this chapter after
having been once notified of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1471, passed 2-6-90)
CHAPTER 155: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Scope of regulations
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Prohibited signs
   
155.04   Additional prohibitions
   
155.05   Signs exempt from permits
   
155.06   (Reserved)
   
155.07   Billboards and banners
   
155.08   Signs requiring permits
   
155.09   Procedure for obtaining a permit
   
155.10   Basic sign standards and requirements
   
155.11   Illuminated signs
   
155.12   Computation of sign area
   
155.13   Variance from standards and requirements
   
155.14   Signs permitted in residential districts
   
155.15   Signs permitted in “Business A” zones
   
155.16   Signs permitted in “Business B” and “Business B-1” districts
   
155.17   Signs permitted in office and professional districts
   
155.18   Special signs
   
155.19   Non-conforming signs
   
155.20   Legal non-conforming signs
   
155.21   Enforcement
§ 155.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth herein shall apply and govern signs in all zones
except as otherwise specifically provided within this title. Definitions shall
be construed as defined in the Hamilton County Building Code and in normal
dictionary usage.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 17-11, passed 7-18-17)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety,
morals, and appearance of the community by providing an instrument for
protecting the physical appearance of the community and for encouraging high
quality, effective outdoor graphics for the purpose of information and
identification. Specifically, it is the intent of this chapter to provide
businesses in the city with equitable sign standards in accord with fair
competition and aesthetic standards acceptable to the community. This chapter
is based on the premise that signs are as much subject to control as noise,
odors, debris, and other similar characteristics of land use that, if not
regulated, can become a nuisance to adjacent properties within the community in
general, or depreciate the value of other properties within the community. It
is also the intent of this chapter to guarantee equal treatment under the law
through accurate record keeping and consistent enforcement.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.03 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs, unless designated as legal non-conforming signs
pursuant to §
155.18, are prohibited within the city:
   (A)   Abandoned signs. Any sign, now or hereafter, existing which no longer
advertises a bona fide business conducted on the premises or a product sold on
the premises for a period of 30 days shall be deemed abandoned.
   (B)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs which direct attention to a
business, profession, activity, commodity, service, or entertainment other than
one conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where such sign is located or
within the portion of the building to which such sign is affixed are
prohibited. The term "off-premises sign" includes any outdoor advertising sign
on which space is leased or rented by the owner thereof to others for the
purpose of conveying a commercial or non-commercial message. When a building
has more than one business or tenant operating therein, signs designating a
particular business shall be located only on that portion of the building which
houses the business identified on the sign.
   (C)   Hazardous or dangerous signs. When the Building or Zoning Commissioner
determines that a sign or its supporting structure is structurally unsafe,
constituted a hazard to safety or health, is not in good repair, or can cause
electrical shock, he or she shall cause such sign or its structure to be
removed. At the discretion of the Commissioner, he or she may order the sign
removed according to the procedures in division (F) below, or, if in his or her
determination, the sign is an imminent threat to the safety of the public, he
or she may cause the immediate removal of the sign with expenses charged to the
owner of the property, building, or structure upon which the sign is attached.
   (D)   Roof signs. No signs shall be placed on a roof or extended beyond the
height of the gutter line. The Board of Appeals may grant a variance for a roof
sign only where the applicant demonstrates practical difficulties in utilizing
a wall sign and that the variance shall be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of this chapter. Removal of an illegal roof sign shall be in accordance
with division (F) below, or division (C) if it constitutes a hazard.
   (E)   Painted wall signs. Signs painted directly on the exterior surface of
a building are prohibited.
   (F)   Prohibited signs, as described in §§
155.03 and
155.04, and their supports shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent,
or person having the beneficial use of the building or structure upon which
such a sign may be found within 60 days after written notification from the
Building or Zoning Department. The notice shall warn the owner, agent, or
beneficial user that failure to remove the sign as ordered may result in
criminal charges and may cause the city to undertake removal of the sign at the
owner's, agent's, or user's expense. Upon failure to comply with such notice
within the time specified in such order, the Safety-Service Director or the
Building Commissioner shall cause removal of such sign, and any expenses
incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the property, building, or
structure upon which the sign is erected, or to which the sign is attached.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 08-30, passed 10-28-08)
§ 155.04 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Signs which constrict the flow of air through any window or door are
prohibited.
   (B)   Signs erected at or near any intersection of any street, in a manner
to obstruct fee and clear vision, or at any location where, by reason of
position, shape, or color, which may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or
be confusing to a motorist are prohibited.
   (C)   Signs over or on any street, public way, or alley right of way are
prohibited unless specifically permitted by another section or ordinance.
   (D)   Signs, handbills, posters, advertisements, or notices of any kind
erected on any structure within the right of way are prohibited unless
specifically permitted by another section or ordinance. This prohibition
includes items posted on utility poles.
   (E)   Signs which contain audible sound or noise making devices or
instruments are prohibited. Separate noise making devices are also prohibited
when used in conjunction with a sign.
   (F)   Signs which display flashing or intermittent lights of changing
degrees of intensity are prohibited.
   (G)   Signs, except for barber poles, which rotate, are animated, revolve,
or have any visible moving part are prohibited.
   (H)   Signs which contain any obscene, indecent, or immoral matter are
prohibited.
   (I)   Signs designed as portable, mobile signs are prohibited for permanent
use. Permanent use shall be deemed to be any continuous period exceeding 30
days.
   (J)   Signs must be professional in appearance and shall not have surface
areas constructed of "home made" materials such as plywood, common lumber, or
sheet metal. They shall not be hand-lettered or hand-drawn.
   (K)   Removal of signs in this section shall be in accordance with §
155.03(F).
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 08-30, passed 10-28-08)
§ 155.05 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMITS.
   The following signs which meet the criteria established herein may be
permitted in all districts and do not require a permit:
   (A)   Real estate signs, single or double faced, advertising the sale,
lease, or rental of the premises upon which the sign is located, and which does
not exceed 12 square feet in area (except in residential districts where such
signs shall not exceed six square feet in area).
   (B)   Professional name plates, single or double faced, not exceeding two
square feet in area.
   (C)   Memorial signs or tablets, when built into the walls of the building
and constructed of bronze, brass, marble, stone, or other non-combustible
material.
   (D)   Construction signs denoting the person, firm, architect, engineer, or
contractor of construction projects when placed upon premises where the
construction work is being performed. Such a sign shall not be over 25 square
feet in area, may be single or double faced, and shall have a maximum height of
five feet above grade to the top of the sign. The sign shall be removed by the
owner or agent within ten consecutive calendar days after completion of the
project.
   (E)   Signs on a truck, bus, trailer, or other vehicle that is not used
primarily for the display of signs.
   (F)   Political campaign signs.
   (G)   Address identifying numbers denoting the address of the occupants of
the premises, whether residential or business. These numbers must be a minimum
of three inches in height, affixed in a conspicuous place, and of sufficient
color contrast to be clearly visible and legible from the abutting street or
sidewalk. Apartment buildings or buildings with multiple units must also have
individual residences marked with the appropriate number or letter. The
identifying numbers noted in this division are mandatory and not permissive. It
is a safety concern and necessary for the proper response of emergency police
and fire personnel.
   (H)   Municipal government signs erected for the purpose of the operation of
the city government or public safety.
   (I)   Temporary signs, not exceeding ten square feet in surface area, which
advertise public events such as festivals or fairs, or which contain a civic or
religious message, or which advertise the name of window, door, or light
construction company which performed work upon the premises. Such signs shall
be limited to 30 continuous days in duration, and shall also be limited to 30
days of posting within a 120-day period.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 08-30, passed 10-28-08)
§ 155.06 (RESERVED)
§ 155.07 BILLBOARDS AND BANNERS.
   (A)   In the Business B District and the Business B-1 District, billboards
are prohibited, except for the following:
      (1)   Billboards erected prior to September 1, 1997;
      (2)   Billboards which are erected with a properly issued permit on or
after September 1, 1997, to replace a billboard which is in existence on
September 1, 1997; or
   (B)   No person shall construct a billboard without first removing a
billboard sign equal in face area and the number of faces. In order to
administer this provision, the Building Commissioner shall issue a replacement
permit to any person who permanently removes a lawfully existing outdoor
advertising sign and any supporting structure that has been inspected pursuant
to this chapter and found to fully comply with this chapter and all other
applicable codes. The Commissioner shall note on the replacement permit the
number of faces and face area, up to a maximum of 672 square feet, and the zone
district in which the sign was located for every sign face removed. Replacement
permits may be transferred. No new billboard sign construction permit shall be
issued unless the applicant tenders for cancellation replacement permits with a
total face area and number of faces noted of at least the area and number of
the sign or signs to be replaced.
   (C)   As used in this section, BILLBOARD means a type of off-premise sign
classified as a business use, which is generally a rigidly assembled sign,
display, or device, usually freestanding, that is affixed to the ground or to a
building, the primary purpose of which is to display advertising posters. Such
signs, commonly referred to as BILLBOARDS or POSTER PANELS are generally
designed so that the copy or poster on the sign can be changed and the
advertising space may be leased. Billboards are greater than  300 square feet
in surface area and do not include painted wall signs and other signs
prohibited under other sections of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances. This section
shall not be construed to permit off- premises signs which do not meet the
strict definition of BILLBOARD.
   (D)   A banner over Harrison Avenue roadway, near the intersection of
Harrison and Glenmore Avenues, is permitted subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   No banner shall be in place for a period exceeding 30 days during
any calendar year.
      (2)   No banner shall be for the advertisement, support, or endorsement
of any political candidate, political party, or ballot issue.
      (3)   No banner shall be for the advertisement of any commercial product
or service. Banners shall be limited to the advertisement of events and
accomplishments of non-profit or governmental organizations.
      (4)   No banner may be erected without first obtaining a permit from the
Safety-Service Director. No fee shall be required for the permit. The permit
shall be in a form prescribed by the Safety-Service Director, and copies of all
current and pending permits shall be made available for inspection upon
request.
      (5)   Permits shall be issued on a “first come, first served” basis. No
permit shall be applied for or issued more than 90 days before the first day of
the display of the banner.
      (6)   All costs of erection, removal, and liability insurance shall be
borne by the person or organization receiving the permit.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.08 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless a sign has been specifically exempted from the requirement of a
permit by §
155.05 above, or by another section, a permit from the city building department
(with all fees paid in full) shall be obtained before the sign is erected,
enlarged, painted, expanded, altered (including face changes), relocated, or
reconstructed on private or public property.
   (B)   By way of example, and not by way of limitation, the following
situations shall require a permit:
      (1)   Change of signs. If any sign is removed, and any new sign is
erected in its place, a permit shall be obtained in the same way as if a new
sign were erected at a new location, subject to all requirements stated in this
chapter.
      (2)   Relocation of signs. If any conforming sign is removed from one
located and is erected at a new location, a new permit shall be obtained.
      (3)   Alteration of signs. Alteration or enlargement of any sign shall
require a permit in the same way as a new sign.
   (C)   Maintenance of signs. If any conforming sign, or legal non-conforming
sigh, is removed for maintenance and replaced on the same supports, a new
permit shall not be required, provided that the size, type, or message is not
changed.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.09 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a sign permit shall be made and submitted at the
office of the Building or Zoning Commissioner on the appropriate forms
furnished by the administration.
   (B)   All applications for sign permits shall, at a minimum, include a scale
drawing of the proposed sign, indicating the following:
      (1)   Height, size, and orientation of the sign and message contained
thereon.
      (2)   Location of the sign on the lot or building, respecting all
setbacks required by this chapter, by the city building code, or by the city
zoning code.
      (3)   Type of materials from which sign is to be constructed.
      (4)   Method of illuminating and source of illumination for such sign.
      (5)   Any other information which may be required by the Building or
Zoning Administrator to determine conformance with the regulations contained
herein.
   (C)   The Building or Zoning Commissioner shall grant or deny an application
for a sign permit within 30 days of its receipt. When an application for a
permit is denied, the Commissioner shall briefly state in writing the reason
for the denial.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.10 BASIC SIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected or placed unless it is in full compliance
with the regulations and building setbacks for the zone in which it is located.
In addition to any regulations contained herein, all new signs shall conform to
the requirements of all city regulations and codes such as building codes,
electrical codes, and other applicable ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   Except as specifically provided herein, signs shall be permanently
attached to the ground or on the building which the sign is to serve.
   (C)   All signs shall be subject to inspection and approval of the Building
or Zoning Commissioner, and all permits are subject tot revocation, and the
sign shall be removed, when the Building or Zoning Commissioner finds that a
sign for which a permit has been issued is in violation of permit conditions,
or a sign has been installed without a proper permit.
   (D)   All signs and sign structures, including the component parts of each,
shall be maintained in a safe and attractive condition by the owners of the
sign or the owners of the property upon which the sign is located. Signs shall
be maintained free of dirt and other such debris. All lettering, illustrations,
and other such graphics contained on said signs shall be constructed and
maintained in a workmanlike manner, free from fading and illegibility. The
Building or Zoning Commissioner shall order the repair or removal of any sign
which is defective, damaged, or substantially deteriorated. If such order of
the Building or Zoning Commissioner is not obeyed within the time period
specified in the order, the Building or Zoning Commissioner shall remove or
cause to be removed any sign that is erected and is not in full compliance with
all applicable provisions and regulations of this title, or any other
applicable laws, codes, ordinances, or regulations of the city. If, after due
notice and reasonable time for compliance, the owner of such sign has failed to
remove the sign or correct the violation, such owner or agent shall bear the
full costs of such removal, and shall be billed accordingly.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 17-11, passed 7-18-17)
§ 155.11 ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   (A)   Light sources for illuminated signs shall not be of a brightness as to
constitute a hazard to pedestrians or vehicular traffic. Artificial light shall
be maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when
in use. The illumination of exterior signs shall be accomplished from a
concealed source. On externally lighted signs, the light shall be focused to
light only the sign.
   (B)   Illumination for signs shall be directed or shaded so as to not
interfere with the vision of persons on the adjacent streets or property.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.12 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof, that will encompass the
extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display, but
not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative fence,
foundation, or wall, when such fence, foundation, or wall otherwise meets
zoning regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.13 VARIANCE FROM STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of special circumstances or conditions where the strict
application of the requirements of this chapter would deprive the property
owner of a reasonable desire to have signage, the Building or Zoning
Commissioner shall have the power to vary or adapt the requirements of this
chapter. In granting a variance, the Commissioner may prescribe the appropriate
conditions and safeguards to ensure conformity with the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (B)   Variances shall be granted only when there is a pressing need and
shall be limited in their scope to the minimum variance necessary to accomplish
the purpose of the variance. The fact that another person or entity has
received a variance shall not be a valid reason for the issuance of a new
variance, and shall not be considered by the Building or Zoning Commissioner.
   (C)   Appeals from the grant or denial of a variance shall be in accordance
with the procedures enumerated in §
150.14 of the Cheviot Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.14 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Signs permitted in the Residential Districts (Residence, R-1, and
Multiple Use), shall be used for the purposes typically accessory to single
family residential usage. Such signs shall not create a nuisance, or impact the
use and enjoyment of surrounding residential property.
   (B)   The following types of signs are permitted in Residential Districts:
      (1)   Signs exempt from permits which are listed in §
155.05.
      (2)   Identification signs for churches, schools, community centers,
libraries, or other public or semi-public buildings or institutions that comply
withe the following requirements:
         (a)   Freestanding signs may not exceed 32 square feet in
identification display area and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
any street, right of way, or adjoining property line. No such sign or portion
of the structure it may be integral with shall exceed six feet from grade.
         (b)   For building signs, one wall sign not exceeding eight square
feet for each 50 feet of building frontage shall be permitted.
         (c)   The total surface area of building signs and freestanding signs,
measured collectively, shall not exceed 32 square feet.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.15 SIGNS PERMITTED IN “BUSINESS A” ZONES.
   The following types of signs shall be permitted in "Business A" zones :
   (A)   Signs exempt from permits which are listed in §
155.05.
   (B)   Building signs.
      (1)   Any business or other permissible use shall be permitted 1-1/
2 square feet of building sign surface area for each lineal foot of building
frontage that fronts the principal dedicated street, or the facade that
contains the main entrance to the building.
      (2)   Where a building contains multiple tenants, building signs may be
calculated by individual unit as measured from interior wall to interior wall
of the tenant space. Each tenant shall be permitted 1-1/2 square feet of
building sign surface area for each foot of building frontage that fronts the
principal dedicated street, or the facade that contains the main entrance to
the building.
   (C)   Free standing signs.
      (1)   Pole signs are not permitted
      (2)   A ground or monument type sign, up to a maximum of 32 square feet
of sign surface area, is permitted if the business has at least 100 feet of lot
frontage. No such sign shall be placed nearer that 50 feet to an area
designated as residential.
   (D)   Special signs. Awning and canopy signs and temporary signs may be
permitted if they meet all requirements of §
155.18.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.16 SIGNS PERMITTED IN "BUSINESS B" AND "BUSINESS B-1" DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs shall be permitted in "Business B" and
"Business B-1" zones:
   (A)   Signs exempt from permits which are listed in §
155.05.
   (B)   Building signs.
      (1)   Any business or other permissible use shall be permitted to erect a
building sign with 1-1/2 square feet of surface area for each foot of building
frontage as measured along the length of the building facade that fronts the
principal dedicated street, a municipal or private parking lot, or the facade
that contains the main entrance to the building. For other building frontage,
building signs may not exceed .75 square feet of sign surface area for each
foot of building frontage.
      (2)   Where a building contains multiple tenants, building signs may be
calculated by individual unit as measured from the interior wall of a tenant’s
space. Each tenant shall be permitted to erect a building sign with 1-1/
2 square feet of surface area for each foot of his portion of the building’s
frontage as measured along the length of the building facade that fronts the
principal dedicated street, a municipal or private parking lot, or the facade
that contains the main entrance to the building. For tenant space facing
another street frontage, such as a secondary public street, private drive,
private access drive, or parking lot, building signs may not exceed .75 square
feet of sign surface area for each foot of building frontage occupied by that
particular tenant.
      (3)   Limits for building sign surface area for corner lots with
secondary frontage shall be calculated in the same manner as in division (B)(1)
above.
   (C)   Free standing signs. Free standing signs may be in the form of a pole
sign or a ground mounted sign and are subject to the size of requirements of
division (B) above. In addition, free standing signs shall meet the following
requirements :
      (1)   The maximum amount of display area shall be 35 square feet.
      (2)   No sign or any portion of the supporting structure shall exceed 18
feet from grade.
      (3)   All free standing signs shall be located a minimum of ten feet away
from any adjoining property line, shall not be closer than 50 feet to any
residential district, shall not be located within or overhanging any public
road or right of way, and shall be at least ten feet from any street.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one free standing sign for any one
qualifying building, regardless of the number of businesses conducted in that
building.
   (D)   Special signs. Window signs, awning and canopy signs, temporary signs,
portable signs, banners, and sandwich board signs may be permitted if they meet
all requirements of §
155.18.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.17 SIGNS PERMITTED IN OFFICE AND PROFESSIONAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following types of signs shall be permitted in "Office and
Professional" zones:
      (1)   Signs exempt from permits which are listed in §
155.05.
      (2)   For single family residences, those signs permitted by §
155.14.
      (3)   For multi-unit buildings, one framing device, not exceeding four
feet in height from the ground, and not exceeding 32 inches in width. One
identification plate for each tenant, plus one general identification plate for
the property will be permitted to be installed on the framing device. These
name plates shall not exceed 32 inches in length, or ten inches in height.
      (4)   Portable and movable signs that conform to the other requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   No neon or flashing lights are permitted. Signs may be illuminated by
indirect light only.
   (C)   A framing device shall be at least ten feet from the nearest edge to
any property line and at least ten feet from the nearest edge to a public right
of way.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.18 SPECIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Window signs. WINDOW SIGN means any sign attached to, placed upon, or
painted on the interior of a window or door of a building which is intended for
viewing from the exterior of that building. All window signs, both temporary
and permanent combined, shall not exceed 50% of the total square footage of
window frontage. These signs shall not be included in the maximum area of
permanent signs permitted by business. No permit shall be required.
   (B)   Awnings or canopies used as signs. One awning sign shall be permitted
per building. The total area of one face of the sign shall not exceed six
square feet, and the vertical dimension of the sign shall be at least eight
feet from the sidewalk and shall be no closer than three feet to the curb line
in horizontal dimension. This sign lettering area shall not be included in the
maximum area of permanent signs permitted. Lettering added to an existing
awning shall not require a permit. A permit shall be required for the
replacement of an existing awning or the installation of a new awning.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs include commercial advertising
banners, flags, pennants, and temporary business or identification signs
intended to promote special business occasions associated with the business or
other pursuits conducted on or within the premises on which the sign is erected
or maintained. Temporary signs shall :
      (1)   Not exceed one sign per business location.
      (2)   Be allowed by permit only, shall not exceed a period of 30 days,
and any permit shall be limited to one every 90 days.
      (3)   Not exceed 20% of the maximum area of permanent signs permitted for
a location. This 20% shall be in addition to the square footage of the
permanent signage at that location.
      (4)   Not extend into the line of a street, sidewalk, alley, or other
thoroughfare.
   (D)   Portable or movable signs. Portable or movable signs for commercial or
advertising use to advertise grand openings, charitable, or community-related
events and similar activities are permitted in the business districts, subject
to the following restrictions:
      (1)   No more than one such sign shall be permitted per premise.
      (2)   Such sings shall be allowed by permit only, shall not exceed a
period of 30 days, and any permit shall be limited to one every 90 days.
      (3)   Illuminated portable signs shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter and the National Electric Code.
      (4)   No portable sign shall be located closer than one-half the setback
distance from the building setback to the street or right of way.
      (5)   No portable sign shall exceed 32 square feet in surface display
area.
   (E)   Sandwich board signs. Temporary advertisement signs known as "sandwich
boards" may be used on a day to day basis when placed on the sidewalk at the
curb line and restricting pedestrian clearance to not less than five feet.
Sandwich board signs may only be in place during the operating hours of the
business displaying the sign. Sandwich board signs may only be displayed on a
sidewalk which borders the property of the business displaying the sign or
which borders public property which is contiguous to the business displaying
the sign. No sign shall be displayed on a sidewalk which borders a city
municipal building. No permit shall be required for conforming sandwich board
signs.
   (F)   Signs during festivals and special events. During the Harvest Home
Parade and Fair at Harvest Home Park in September of each year, and during
special events such as the West Side Street Fest and other festivals properly
conducted within the City of Cheviot, temporary signs advertising products,
services, businesses, or not-for-profit organizations may be displayed on the
Harvest Home Park fence and in the Harvest Home Park premises without a permit
with the approval of the Safety-Service Director. Signs may be erected in other
parts of the city where the event is being conducted if the festival or event
is taking place outside of Harvest Home Park. The Safety-Service Director may
set the conditions for the erection, duration, and removal of the signs.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. 15-18, passed 6-16-15)
§ 155.19 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign affixed to a business, or free standing upon premises, which
was in existence and legal prior to the date of the passage of this chapter,
but has become prohibited by this chapter, shall be designated as a "non-
conforming sign."
   (B)   A non-conforming sign shall be removed by the owner or agent within 60
days of the passage of this chapter, unless the sign is designated as a "legal
non-conforming sign" in accordance with §
155.20.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.20 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign affixed to a business or freestanding upon premises, except
for abandoned, off-premise, or dangerous signs as defined in divisions (A),
(B), and (C) of §
155.03, which is lawfully in existence at the time of the passage of this
chapter, and is properly maintained, but does not meet the regulations or
requirements of this chapter, may be deemed a "legal non-conforming sign" if
the owner takes the necessary action listed in this section.
   (B)   To be designated as a legal non-conforming sign, the owner of the
property or business must submit to the Building or Zoning Commissioner, within
60 days of the passage of this chapter, an application for such designation.
The application shall include a clear photograph of the business plainly
showing all permanent sign locations, a written list detailing the current
number of signs and the size of each sign at the business.
   (C)   Legal non-conforming signs shall become non-conforming signs and shall
be removed when:
      (1)   The business is abandoned or closed to the public for 30 or more
consecutive days;
      (2)   The sign is not properly maintained (including its structure,
supports, braces, guys, anchors, illumination, and power source);
      (3)   The sign is altered in its copy or structure;
      (4)   The sign is enlarged, relocated, or replaced;
      (5)   The sign is repainted, excluding normal repainting or touch-up;
      (6)   The sign suffers more than 50% appraised damage or deterioration.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
§ 155.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building or Zoning Commissioner shall be responsible for the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter in the same manner as he enforces the
building and zoning codes of the city. Failure to comply with the written order
of the Building or Zoning Commissioner, or an employee of his office designated
for enforcement, shall be a minor misdemeanor. Each day of violation of the
written order shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 10-3-06)
CHAPTER 156: COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
Section
   
156.01   Scope
   
156.02   Established
   
156.03   Eligibility for incentive
   
156.04   Negotiation for tax exemption
   
156.05   Commercial project requirements
   
156.06   Housing Officer designated
   
156.07   Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council created
   
156.08   Tax Incentive Review Council created
   
156.09   Reevaluation
   
156.10   Annual inspection
§ 156.01 SCOPE.
   The area designated as the Cheviot Community Reinvestment Area constitutes
an area in which housing facilities or structures of historical significance
are located, and in which new construction or repair of existing facilities
have been discouraged.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.02 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 3735.66, the Cheviot Community Reinvestment Area is
hereby established as follows: all those properties that front along the
following segments of streets located within the City of Cheviot, Ohio, are
within the Cheviot Community Reinvestment Area:
      (1)   Harrison Avenue. Beginning at the boundary line between Green
Township and the City of Cheviot where Harrison Avenue intersects with the
Green Township boundary line, and thence eastward along Harrison Avenue until
it intersects with the City of Cincinnati boundary limits.
      (2)   Bridgetown Road. Beginning at the boundary line between Green
Township and the City of Cheviot where Bridgetown Road intersects with the
Green Township boundary line, and thence eastward along Bridgetown Road until
it intersects with Harrison Avenue.
      (3)   Glenmore Avenue. Beginning at the intersection of Glenmore Avenue
and Harrison Avenue, and thence southward along Glenmore Avenue until it
intersects with the City of Cincinnati boundary limits.
      (4)   North Bend Road. Beginning at the intersection of North Bend Road
and Harrison Avenue, and thence northward along North Bend Road until it
intersects with the Green Township boundary limits.
   (B)   The Cheviot Community Reinvestment Area is depicted on the map marked
as "Exhibit B" attached to this Ordinance No. 05-13 and made a part hereof.
Only commercial or combined commercial/residential properties consistent with
the applicable zoning regulations within the designated Community Reinvestment
Area will be eligible for exemptions under this program.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR INCENTIVE.
   All properties identified in "Exhibit B" as being within the designated
Community Reinvestment Area are eligible for the incentive. The City of Cheviot
may determine that all or any combination of project types - commercial or
combined commercial/residential -are eligible. This proposal is a public/
private partnership intended to promote and expand conforming uses in the
designated area. As part of this project, the City of Cheviot intends to
undertake supporting public improvements in the designated area.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.04 NEGOTIATION FOR TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Within the Community Reinvest Area, the percentage of the tax
exemption on the increase in the assessed valuation resulting from the
improvement to commercial real property and the term of those exemptions shall
be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction or remodeling
occurring according to the rules outlined in R.C. § 3765.67. The result of the
negotiation as approved by this Council will be set in writing in a Community
Reinvestment Area Agreement as outlined in R.C.§ 3735.671.
      (1)   A period of exemption up to 12 years for existing commercial
facilities may be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction
or remodeling occurring.
      (2)   A period of exemption up to 15 years for new commercial facilities
may be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction occurring.
   (B)   If remodeling qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the dollar amount of the increase in
market value of the structure shall be exempt from real property taxation. If
the new construction qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the structure shall not be considered to
be an improvement on the land on which it is located for the purpose of real
property taxation.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.05 COMMERCIAL PROJECT REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial projects are required to comply with the state application
fee requirements of R.C.§ 3735.672 and the local annual monitoring fee of one
percent of the amount of taxes exempted under the agreement - a minimum of $500
up to a maximum of $2,500 annually.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.06 HOUSING OFFICER DESIGNATED.
   To administer and implement the provisions of this chapter, the Safety-
Service Director is designated as the Housing Officer as described in R.C. §§
735.65 through 3735.70.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.07 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA HOUSING COUNCIL CREATED.
   A Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall be created, consisting
of two members appointed by the Mayor of Cheviot, two members appointed by the
Council of the City of Cheviot, and one member appointed by the Planning
Commission of Cheviot. The majority of the members shall then appoint two
additional members who shall be residents within the City of Cheviot. Terms of
the members of the Housing Council shall be for three years. An unexpired term
resulting from a vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the same manner as
the initial appointment was made.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.08 TAX INCENTIVE REVIEW COUNCIL CREATED. 
   A Tax Incentive Review Council shall be established pursuant to R.C. §
709.85 and shall consist of three representatives appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners, two representatives of the City of Cheviot, appointed by
the Mayor with City Council concurrence, the County Auditor or his designee,
and a representative of the Cincinnati Public School Board of Education. At
least two members must be residents of the City of Cheviot. The Tax Incentive
Review Council shall review annually the compliance of all agreements involving
the granting of exemptions for commercial property improvements under R.C. §
3735.671 and make written recommendations to the Council as to continuing,
modifying, or terminating the agreement based upon the performance of the
agreement.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.09 REEVALUATION.
   This City Council reserves the right to reevaluate the designation of the
Cheviot Community Reinvestment Area after December 31, 2006, at which time the
council may direct the Housing Officer not to accept any new applications for
exemptions a described in R.C. § 3735.67.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
§ 156.10 ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   The Community Reinvestment Area Council shall make an annual inspection of
the properties within the district for which an exemption has been granted
under R.C. § 3 735.67. The Community Reinvestment Area Council shall hear
appeals under R.C. § 3735.70.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 5-17-05)
CHAPTER 157: FENCE REGULATIONS
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   General regulations
   
157.04   Permit requirements
   
157.05   Permit fee
   
157.06   Appeals
   
157.07   Variance from standards and requirements
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   The regulations of this chapter are established to permit fences in a manner
that promotes safety and security while protecting and enhancing the appearance
and character of neighborhoods and business districts.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, these terms shall have the following meaning:
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or materials
erected to enclose, screen, or decorate areas of land.
   FENCE HEIGHT. The height of a fence, as defined herein, measured from grade
at the base of the fence.
   FENCE TYPES. A fence shall be composed of wrought iron-style pickets, wood
pickets, wood split rails and posts, brick, stone, chain link or any other
materials of a decorative nature.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18)
§ 157.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Fences shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the following
regulations, as well as other applicable regulations of the Codified
Ordinances:
   (A)   Height. Fences in yards shall not exceed eight feet in height. Any
fence over six feet in height shall have 50% opacity (50% open for the passage
of air and light).
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Front yards. No front yard fencing is permitted.
      (2)   Rear yards. The fence shall not extend past the rear corner line of
the structure.
      (3)   Side yards. A fence will be permitted if the rear entrance is
located on the side wall of the structure. The fence shall not extend more than
three feet beyond the side door toward front of property line structure.
      (4)   Corner lots. On comer lots, the fence cannot be located less than
two feet from the sidewalk.
   (C)   Prohibited materials. No fence shall be composed of scrap materials,
tires, canvas, cardboard, asphalt-style shingles, chicken wire, corrugated
metal or sheet metal.
   (D)   Appearance. All fences shall be uniform in material and color. In the
case of a fence with a finished side and an unfinished side, the finished or
more decorative side shall face outward toward the adjoining property or the
street.
   (E)   Barbed wire, razor wire, and electrical fences. Fences that are
composed of or contain barbed wire or razor wire are prohibited, except in
connection with utility properties, as defined herein. Electrical fences are
prohibited.
   (F)   Maintenance. All fences shall be maintained in good condition, free of
significant rust, peeling paint or other damage. Furthermore, all fences shall
be kept plumb, with no more than a two inch deflection from a vertical
position.
   (G)   Recreation facilities. On the grounds of a school or on the grounds of
a public or private recreation use, an open fence erected to enclose a
playground, playfield, swimming pool, tennis court, golf course or similar
facility may exceed the otherwise applicable height limits, but shall not
exceed 12 feet in height.
   (H)   Utility properties. An open fence erected for security purposes around
a public utility use may exceed the otherwise applicable height limits, but
shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
   (I)   Temporary construction fences. Notwithstanding other provisions of
this chapter, a temporary fence shall be permitted in any zoning district to
enclose a site at which construction activity is underway. Such fence shall be
in place only for the duration of the construction activity and shall be
removed when construction activity has been completed or has been discontinued
for a period of three months or more. Such fence shall be located as necessary
to protect the public and to secure the construction site, as approved by the
Building Department. The fence may be chain link, wood or another material
approved by the Building Department.
   (J)   Nonconforming fences. Except as specified in § 157.04(C), any fence
not conforming to the regulations of this chapter may be retained and repaired,
but shall not be moved or replaced in whole unless made to conform with the
provisions of this chapter. Replacement of less than half of a nonconforming
fence in a 12 month period shall be considered "repair" and not "replacement"
for purposes of this provision.
   (K)   Historic District. Fences located in a Historic District are exempted
from the general regulations; however, an application must be made for a
certificate of appropriateness.
   (L)   Solid wall fences. Any walls to be constructed as fences shall not
restrict drainage. Solid wall style fences shall be placed a minimum of four
inches above finish grade to not impede site drainage. A solid wall style fence
may exceed its allowable height by four inches to facilitate drainage. Any
walls to be constructed as fences will need to be accompanied by detailed
construction drawings and shall be reviewed by the Building Code Plan Examiner
prior to construction.
   (M)   Ornamental and decorative fences. A fence shall be considered
"ornamental or decorative" if it is composed of wrought iron-style pickets,
wood pickets, wood split rails and posts, brick, stone, or any materials of a
decorative nature approved by the Building Department as compatible with the
character of the area in which the fence is to be placed. The regulations
herein apply to ornamental and decorative fences.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. Except as exempted in this section, no fence shall be
installed unless a permit for such fence has been issued by the Building
Department.
   (B)   Contents of application. An application for a building permit to erect
a fence shall include the following information, in addition to other
information required by the Building Department for a permit application:
      (1)   A plot plan showing the location of the fence and gates in relation
to all property lines, streets, driveways, sidewalks and structure on or within
six feet of the subject property, and north arrow. Certified surveyor's
drawings are preferred.
      (2)   Information indicating the height, materials, dimensions, colors,
style, and opacity of the fence.
      (3)   Information and plans indicating the method of attaching the fence
to the ground or to other structures.
   (C)   Exemption for repair or replacement. No permit is required for repair
or replacement of a fence or portions thereof if the area being repaired or
replaced, in any 12 month period, does not exceed 50% of the length of the
fence, and the replacement does not involve changes to foundations or footers.
The exemption regarding partial replacement does not apply to walls.
   (D)   Exemption for agricultural purposes. No permit is required for fencing
used around small areas within a rear yard for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.05 PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee is $20.25 per the first 100 linear feet, plus $1.35 for each
additional 25 linear feet.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.06 APPEALS.
   Any person directly affected by a decision, notice, or order issued under
this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals,
provided that a written application for appeal and fee is submitted within 15
days from the date of the notice or order. An application for appeal shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provision of this code do not
fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other
means. Appeals heard by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be submitted on forms
provided by the city.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18)
§ 157.07 VARIANCE FROM STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of special circumstances or conditions where the strict
application of the requirements of this chapter would deprive the property
owner, the Building or Zoning Commissioner shall have the power to vary or
adapt the requirements of this chapter. In granting a variance, the
Commissioner may prescribe the appropriate conditions and safeguards to ensure
conformity with the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Variances shall be granted only when there is a pressing need and
shall be limited in their scope to the minimum variance necessary to accomplish
the purpose of the variance. The fact that another person or entity has
received a variance shall not be a valid reason for the issuance of a new
variance, and shall not be considered by the Building or Zoning Commissioner.
   (C)   Appeals from the grant or denial of a variance shall be in accordance
with the procedures enumerated in §
157.06.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter by failing to comply with the
order of a code official, or, if no order is required, by violating any
provision of the code, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor punishable in
accordance with the penalties specified in §
130.99. Each day that a violation continue after notice has been served shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 18-21, passed 10-16-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ORDINANCES RELATING TO HARVEST HOME PARK AND CHEVIOT MEMORIAL CENTER
BUILDING
         
II.   CITY AGREEMENTS
         
III.   CIVIL DEFENSE
         
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
         
V.   REAL ESTATE
         
VI.   ACCEPTANCES
         
VII.   ZONING CHANGES
TABLE I. HARVEST HOMEPARK
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
68       7-18-34  Prohibit the transportation of intoxicating liquors into the
                  park
                  Rates and rentals of Cheviot Memorial Building established.
144      2- -49   Rates recommended by Rec. Co. Miss. approved by council. This
                  could apply to 338-144
388      2-2-56   Increase of the rental for use of the facilities at Harvest
                  Home Park
552      5-16-61  Restricting the use of the Harvest Home Park Swimming Pool to
                  Cheviot residents and providing for identification
665      4-13-65  Establishing compensation at Harvest Home Park
1200     5-12-81  Establishing compensation at Cheviot Memorial Center
1204     5-12-81  Establishing compensation at Harvest Home Park
1233             5-11-82Establishing compensation at Harvest Home Park
1268     5-24-83  Establishing compensation at Harvest Home Park
1271     5-24-83  Establishing compensation of caretakers at Cheviot Memorial
                  Center
1355     - -86    Establishing certain regulations with respect to Harvest Home
                  Park, as follows:
                  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep or
                harbor any dog on the premises known as Harvest Home Park,
                  whether or not said dog is held on a leash.
                  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person to have or take on to
                the premises known as Harvest Home Park, any glass bottles,
                  glasses or other glass containers.
                  (3) It shall be unlawful for any person to be on the premises
                of Harvest Home park at any time after 11:00 p.m. and before
                  6:00 a.m.
                (4) Whoever violates any of the above provisions shall be
                  fined not more than $100 for each offense.
1562     12-15-92 Authorizing a $10 per hour fee charged for all court time at
                  Harvest Home Lodge and the Cheviot Memorial Fieldhouse.
97-14    5-6-97   Fixing the rates for usage of the Cheviot Pool at Harvest
                  Home Park for the 1997 season.
98-38    9-15-98  Changing the rates for the rental and usage of the Cheviot
                  Fieldhouse and Harvest Home Park facilities.
02-08    3-19-02  Fixing rates for usage of the Cheviot Pool at Harvest Home
                  Park.
02-17    6-4-02   Establishing the position of Arts and Crafts Instructor at
                  Harvest Home Park for the 2002 Season.
03-09    4-15-03  Fixing the rates for usage of the Cheviot Pool at Harvest
                  Home Park for the 2003 season.
03-15    6-17-03  Changing the rates for the rental and usage of the Cheviot
                  Fieldhouse and Harvest Home Park facilities.
05-09    3-15-05  Fixing the rates for usage of the Cheviot Pool at Harvest
                  Home Park for the 2005 season.
05-10    4-19-05  Setting compensation rate for city pool personnel for 2005
                  season.
05-18    8-16-05  Changing the rates for the rental and usage of the Cheviot
                  Fieldhouse and Harvest Home Park facilities.
07-11    4-3-07   Fixing rates for usage of the Cheviot Pool at Harvest Home
                  Park for the 2007 season.
07-13    4-17-07  Authorizing discounts for Cheviot Pool memberships.
08-13    5-20-08  Fixing new rates for usage of the municipal swimming pool for
                  the 2008 season.
08-15    5-27-08  Fixing rates for swimming lessons at the municipal swimming
                  pool for the 2008 season.
09-07    4-21-09  Fixing rates for usage of the municipal swimming pool for the
                  2009 season.
10-17    5-18-10  Setting rates for usage of the municipal swimming pool for
                  the 2010 season.
11-08    5-3-11   Setting rates for usage of the municipal swimming pool for
                  the 2011 season; repealing Ordinance No. 11-06.
13-5     4-17-13  Setting new rates for usage of city facilities at Harvest
                  Home Park and the Cheviot Fieldhouse.
14-2     1-1-14   Setting new rates for usage of city facilities at Harvest
                  Home Park and the Cheviot Fieldhouse.
14-8     2-18-14  Setting new rates for usage of city facilities at Harvest
                  Home Park and the Cheviot Fieldhouse.
15-11    4-7-15   Rates for swimming pool usage for the 2015 season; setting
                  the wage rates for pool personnel.
15-32    12-1-15  Certain changes to rental contracts for city facilities at
                  Harvest Home Park and the Cheviot Field House.
16-1     1-19-16  Setting the pre-season pass rates for the municipal swimming
                  pool for the 2016 season.
16-22    12-20-16 Increase fees for the city’s athletic fields.
17-03    1-17-17  Setting the pre-season pass rates for the municipal swimming
                  pool for the 2017 season.
18-04    2-6-18   Setting the rates for passes to the municipal swimming pool.
18-11    5-1-18   Authorizing the installation of a historical marker at
                  Harvest Home Park.
20-07    2-18-20  Setting the rates for admission to the municipal swimming
                  pool.
22-01    1-4-22   Amending the fees for the use of the city facilities at
                  Harvest Home Park and the Cheviot Memorial Fieldhouse.
22-03    1-18-22  Accepting the bid of Alpha Construction for improvements to
                  the Harvest Home Lodge.
                 
 
 
TABLE II. CITY AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. Date Description
No.
490  1-5- CG&E franchise 25 years
     60
508  3-1- Agreement to establish a countywide quadrant alerting system authorized
     60
     3-
544  21-  Agreement with Hamilton County for poor relief administration
     61
     9-   Hamilton County General Health District to administer the health affairs of
738  19-  Cheviot in 1968
     67
739  10-  Agreement with AFL-CIO authorized
     3-67
     3-
756  12-  Command conference service authorized
     68
     9-   Hamilton County General Health District to administer the health affairs of
778  24-  Cheviot in 1969. A new agreement is made annually with Hamilton County General
     68   Health District to administer the health affairs of Cheviot, but plumbing
          permits and plumbing inspections are retained by the city
1051 3-8- Hamilton County General Health District to administer the health affairs of
     77   Cheviot in 1978
     11-  Hamilton County and Cheviot authorized to cooperate concerning housing and
1074 22-  community development
     77
     5-   Hamilton County General Health District to administer the health affairs of
1100 23-  Cheviot in 1979; renewable
     78
     3-
1114 27-  Agreement with CG&E to provide street lighting
     79
     4-   Mutual police assistance agreement with other cities and villages in Hamilton
1126 24-  County
     79
     8-
1135 14-  Amendment to city and county housing and community development agreement
     79
     3-   Hamilton County General Health District to administer the health affairs of
1205 25-  Cheviot in 1981; renewable
     80
     11-  Agreement with Board of County Commissioners for continuing participation in
1219 10-  community development funds
     81
1254 3-8- Renewal of a mutual assistance agreement with various police departments
     83
1463 12-  Entering into an agreement with the state, Ohio Public Works Commission for the
     5-89 Westwood-Northern Boulevard Street improvement project
1474 3- - Contract with the YMCA for the management of the Cheviot Municipal Pool
     90
     6-   Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County, pursuant to provisions of the
1479 19-  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
     90
1486 7-3- Contract with the Hamilton County Board of Health for health services
     90
     10-
1494 16-  Contract for the implementation of the Home Incarceration Program
     90
     12-
1495 18-  Contract with respect to the supplemental mutual aid agreement
     90
1501 2-5- Mutual aid contract with respect to the Cheviot Fire Department
     91
1507 5-7- Contract between the city and the Professional Firefighters
     91
1508 5-7- Contract on the Wilmar Avenue Street improvement project
     91
1521 8-6- Contracts between the city and Creative Microsystems, Inc. for computer
     91   hardware, software and service agreement
1522 8-6- Contract between the city and the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor
     91   Council, Inc.
1523 8-6- Contract between the city and the Ohio Council #8 AFL-CIO and Local 1093A
     91
     12-  Agreement with the Hamilton County Prosecuting Attorney for distribution of
1528 17-  forfeited monies and proceeds from the sale of contraband and mandatory drug
     91   fines
     12-  Amendment to the labor agreement between the city and the Cheviot Professional
1530 28-  Firefighters with respect to Article No. 18
     91
1544 7-7- Agreement with the Board of Health of Hamilton County
     92
1555 8-4- Contract with CDS Associates, Inc. for engineering, architectural and planning
     92   services
     6-   Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to the provisions of the
1590 15-  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
     93
1591 7-6- Contract with the Hamilton County Health Department for 1994
     93
94-  4-   Contract with American Legal Publishing Corporation for the purpose of updating
12   19-  the city's code of ordinances
     94
94-  5-3- Contract with the Y.M.C.A.
14   94
94-  7-5- Awarding the 1994 street and parking lot improvement contract to AMS, Inc.
17   94
94-  9-
40   20-  Contract with Denham Pride
     94
94-  10-  Accepting bid of Morton International, Inc. to provide ice control salt
42   4-94
94-  11-  Agreement with Eda Rae Corporation with respect to annexation of property owned
46   15-  by Eda Rae located in Green Township
     94
     1-   Agreement with PNC Bank for a one year note in the amount of $31,068 at an
95-4 23-  interest rate of 5.35
     95
95-  4-4- Contract with Trend Construction for the Homelawn Avenue renovation.
18   95
95-  4-4- Contract with Barrett Paving Materials.
19   95
95-  5-2- Contract with Murphy Insurance.
20   95
95-  5-2- Contract with Hamilton County Commissioners relative to the Northbend Road
21   95   improvement project.
95-  5-
22   16-  Contract with Ed Klapper Co.
     95
95-  6-
26   20-  Contract with Denham Pride.
     95
95-  8-1- Contract with respect to the Cheviot Fire Department.
30   95
95-  8-
39   15-  Agreement for the purchase of a 1996 police cruiser.
     95
96-  7-2- Contract for the provision of public health services by the Hamilton County
19   96   General Health District to the city for the period beginning January 1, 1997
          and ending December 31, 1997.
97-  - -  Authorizing an agreement relative to the improvement of Harrison Avenue between
17   97   the city and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
98-  4-7- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract for the sale
11   98   of the city's 1968 Pirsh Pumper fire truck to the Great Oaks Vocational Center.
37-  8-   Authorizing the execution of the Special County Arson Taskforce Mutual Aid
1998 18-  Contract.
     98
98-  12-  Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Rumpke,
50   15-  Inc. for the provision of solid waste disposal services.
     98
99-  4-   Authorizing the mayor to enter into an agreement with AFSCME which amends the
10   20-  current collective bargaining contract.
     99
99-  4-
13   20-  Contract with Ray Prus and Sons for street improvement.
     99
99-  6-   Authorizing the mayor to enter into an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton
16   29-  County pursuant to provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of
     99   1974.
99-  8-3- Contract with John W. McNally, Jr. for services as magistrate of mayor’s court.
22   99
99-  10-  Approving the update of the Solid Waste Management Plan of the Hamilton County
26   5-99 Solid Waste Management District
99-  12-  Approving the mutual assistance contract of the Southwestern Ohio Building
29   21-  Officials Association.
     99
00-  3-
04   21-  Accepting bid of Barrett Paving Materials for street repair materials.
     00
00-  4-4- Approving the labor contract with the Cheviot Professional Firefighters Union
07   00   for the years 2000 -2003.
00-  4-4- Approving the labor contract with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor
08   00   Council, Inc., for the years 2000 - 2003.
00-  4-4- Approving the labor contract with AFSCME for the years 2000 - 2003.
09   00
00-  6-6- Authorizing an agreement relative to the improvement of Washington Avenue
24   00   between the city and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
00-  7-   Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the city's Washington Avenue improvement
28   11-  project.
     00
00-  10-  Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for the provision of ice control salt
39   17-  for the 2000-2001 winter season.
     00
00-  11-  Authorizing and directing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a lease
42   21-  agreement with Hamilton County for the use of the Cheviot Municipal Building
     00   for Hamilton County Municipal Area Court.
00-  12-  Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to amend the current street repair
45   19-  contract with the J.R. Jurgensen Company.
     00
00-  1-2- Approving a right-of-way use agreement with Metricom, Inc.
46   01
00-  12-  Approving a contract with Municipal Tax Consulting and Management and
47   19-  authorizing the City Auditor to enter into the contract on behalf of the city.
     00
00-  12-  Authorize and direct the Mayor to enter into a contract with Inspection Bureau,
51   19-  Inc. (I.B.I.) for the provision of electrical inspection services.
     00
01-  3-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to accept the bid of Barrett Paving
05   20-  Materials for street repair materials.
     01
01-  6-5- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to amend the current street repair
18   01   contract with the Adleta Construction Company.
01-  6-
21   19-  Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the 2001 street improvement project.
     01
01-  7-
22   10-  Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the Applegate Avenue improvement project.
     01
01-  8-7- Authorizing an agreement for the improvement of Applegate Avenue between the
25   01   city and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
02-  1-   Authorizing the linked deposit loan agreement in connection with the Hamilton
03   15-  County Linked Deposit Program.
     02
02-  3-   Accepting the bid of Barrett Paving Materials for bituminous materials for
10   19-  street repairs.
     02
02-  4-2- Accepting the bid of POM, Incorporated, for the provision of new internal
11   02   mechanisms for the city's parking meters.
02-  4-   Accepting the bid of McNelius Truck and Manufacturing Company for the supply of
12   16-  a 25 yard loadpacker unit.
     02
02-  - -  Authorizing an agreement relative to the improvement of North Bend Road between
14   02   the city and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
02-  6-4- Authorizing a cooperation agreement between the city and Hamilton County
16   02   pursuant to the provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of
          1974.
02-  6-   Authorizing a contract with Medicount Management, Inc., for billing and
18   18-  collection services for ambulance/E.M.S. runs on behalf of the city in
     02   consideration fo a percentage of fees collected.
02-  6-
20   18-  Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the 2002 Street Improvement Project.
     02
02-  10-  Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for the provision of ice control salt
30   1-02 for the 2002-2003 winter season.
03-  3-   Accepting the bid of Valley Asphalt Corporation for the provision of bituminous
06   18-  materials for street repairs.
     03
03-  4-1- Approving the collective bargaining labor contract with the Fraternal Order of
08   03   Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. for the years 2003 - 2006.
03-  4-   Approving a collective bargaining labor contract with A.F.S.C.M.E. for the
10   15-  years 2003 - 2006.
     03
03-  4-   Accepting the bid of Murphy Insurance Company for the provision of general
11   15-  liability, property, and automobile insurance.
     03
03-  5-   Approving a collective bargaining labor contract with the Cheviot Professional
12   20-  Firefighters Union for the years 2003 - 2006.
     03
03-  6-3- Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the Cheviot 2003 Street Improvement
13   03   Project.
03-  8-   Approving a contract with Hamilton County for the sharing of costs in the
20   19-  resurfacing of North Bend Road.
     03
03-  - -  Authorizing an agreement relative to the resurfacing of North Bend Road between
25   03   the city and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
03-  10-  Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for the provision of ice control salt
26   7-03 for the 2003 - 2004 winter season.
04-  1-
04   20-  Authorizing contract with Rumpke, Inc for the city’s solid waste disposal.
     04
04-  7-   Approving contract with Center for Local Government re: joint health benefits
16   20-  purchasing cooperative.
     04
04-  7-   Approving contract with City of Cincinnati re: sharing costs for resurfacing
17   20-  portions of Cheviot Avenue and Everett Avenue.
     04
04-  8-3- Accepting bids of R.A. Miller Co. and Larry Smith Contractors for Cheviot 2004
20   04   street improvement project.
04-  10-  Accepting bid of Morton Salt Co. for ice control salt for 2004-2005 winter
24   5-04 season.
05-  1-4- Approving contract with CDS Associates, Inc. (engineering contract).
02   05
05-  6-7- Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to
15   05   Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
05-  9-6- Authorizing contract with Greater Cincinnati Water Works for 30-year period
16   05   beginning December 31, 2017.
05-  9-   Accepting bid of Morton Salt Co. for ice control salt for 2005-2006 winter
21   20-  season.
     05
05-  11-  Authorizing contract with Rumpke, Inc. for the city’s solid waste disposal.
26   1-05
06-  3-   Accepting bid of Brian Brothers Painting and Restoration, L.L.C. for exterior
04   21-  painting and repair of Cheviot Fieldhouse.
     06
06-  4-
08   18-  Accepting bid of Adleta, Inc. for 2006 street improvement project.
     06
06-  5-   Approving agreement with Hamilton County Department of Environmental Service,
10   16-  Solid Waste Management District, for $30,000 grant for purchase of refuse
     06   truck.
06-  5-
13   16-  Accepting bid of McNeilus Truck and Manufacturing Co. for loadpacker unit.
     06
06-  7-5- Accepting bid of Adleta, Inc. for Gamble and Everett Avenues improvement
17   06   project.
06-  7-   Approving collective bargaining labor contract with A.F.S.C.M.E. for 2006 -
18   18-  2009.
     06
06-  7-   Approving collective bargaining labor contract with Cheviot Professional
19   18-  Firefighters Union for 2006 - 2009.
     06
06-  7-   Approving collective bargaining labor contract with Fraternal Order of Police,
20   18-  Ohio Labor Council, Inc. for 2006 - 2009.
     06
06-  10-  Accepting bid of Morton Salt Co. for ice control salt for 2006-2007 winter
32   17-  season.
     06
07-  2-8- Approving contract for consulting work re: P.U.C.O. certification and approving
03   07   second contract for natural gas, both with WPS Energy Services, Inc.
07-  3-6- Approving contract for consulting work re: P.U.C.O. certification and approving
05   07   second contract for natural gas, both with Integrys Energy Services, Inc.
07-  5-1- Accepting the bid of Brian Brothers, Inc. for the restoration of the exterior
16   07   of the Cheviot Municipal Building.
07-  9-4- Authorizing the Mayor to amend the labor contract with AFSCME.
22   07
07-  10-  Accepting bid of Adleta, Inc. for the Homelawn Avenue Reconstruction Project.
29   2-07
07-  10-  Accepting bid of Morton Salt Co. for ice control salt for 2007-2008 winter
30   2-07 season.
07-  10-  Approving the contract with the Ohio Public Works Commission for the Harrison
34   16-  Avenue Improvement Project.
     07
08-  3-   Approving the provision of accounting services to the city by the Local
03   18-  Government Services Section of the State Auditor's Office.
     08
08-  4-1- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a professional services
06   08   contract with CDS Associates, Inc. for the provision of engineering services to
          the city.
08-  4-1- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Hamilton
08   08   County, Ohio for the periodic provision of fire hydrant repair services to the
          city.
08-  5-6- Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
11   08   Commissioners for the improvement of Bridgetown Road.
08-  5-   Accepting the bid of Barrett Paving, Inc. for the Harrison Avenue Improvement
12   20-  Project.
     08
08-  5-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to contract with Schiff-Kreidler-Shell
16   27-  for the provision of liability coverage in 2008.
     08
08-  6-3- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an Agreement of Cooperation with Hamilton
19   08   County, Ohio.
08-  9-   Approving the contract with the Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General
26   16-  Health District for the provision of public health services in calendar year
     08   2009.
08-  10-  Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for ice control salt for the 2008-2009
32   7-08 winter season.
08-  12-  Authorizing a contract extension with Rumpke, Inc. for the disposal of the
43   16-  city's solid waste.
     08
09-  5-5- Approving the agreement with the Ohio Department of Transportation for the
09   09   resurfacing of Harrison Avenue.
09-  5-5- Accepting the bid of Perram Electric for the Harrison Avenue traffic signal
10   09   project.
09-  7-7- Approving a one year collective bargaining labor contract with AFSCME.
12   09
09-  7-   Approving the contract with the Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General
14   21-  Health District for the provision of public health services in 2010.
     09
09-  7-   Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for the provision of ice control salt
16   21-  for the 2009-2010 winter season.
     09
09-  8-4- Accepting the bid of Barrett Paving for the Harrison Avenue Phase 2
19   09   reconstruction project.
09-  9-1- Authorizing the Mayor to contract for the services of Caroline Statkus as the
20   09   Economic Development Director for the city.
09-  9-5- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Great American Plan
22   09   Administrators for the provision of Section 457 Retirement Plan services.
10-  1-   Approving the collective bargaining labor contract with the Fraternal Order of
02   19-  Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. (police officers and sergeants), for the
     10   period beginning April 1, 2009.
10-  1-   Approving a collective bargaining labor contract with the Cheviot Professional
03   19-  Firefighters Union for the period beginning April 1, 2009 and ending May 31,
     10   2010.
10-  1-   Approving an extension of the city's contract with Rumpke, Inc. for the
04   19-  disposal of the city's solid waste material.
     10
10-  2-   Approving an agreement with Green Township, Ohio, for creation and operation of
07   16-  a joint economic development district.
     10
10-  4-6- Approving the collective bargaining labor contract with the Fraternal Order of
13   10   Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc., (Police Officers and Sergeants) for the years
          2010-2013.
10-  5-   Accepting the bid of the John R. Jurgenson Company for the Applegate Avenue
15   18-  Improvement Project.
     10
10-  6-   Approving a collective bargaining agreement with the Cheviot Professional
19   15-  Firefighters Union for the years 2010-2013.
     10
10-  6-   Approving a collective bargaining agreement with A.F.S.C.M.E. for the years
20   15-  2010-2013.
     10
10-  6-   Authorizing an agreement with Joseph Schuster for provision of audio-visual
23   15-  services for the City Council.
     10
10-  6-   Approving an agreement with the City of Cincinnati to share in the expense of
25   15-  reconstructing Higbee Street.
     10
10-  8-   Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for provision of ice control salt for
30   17-  the 2010-2011 winter season.
     10
10-  11-
39   16-  Approving a consulting service agreement with Eagle Energy, L.L.C.
     10
10-  12-  Approving a contract extension with Greater Cincinnati Water Works.
41   7-10
11-  3-1- Authorizing an agreement with Excell Cheviot LLC for a community reinvestment
02   11   area property tax agreement for a commercial development.
11-  5-3- Authorizing an agreement with the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners
07   11   regarding the rehabilitation of Glenmore Avenue.
11-  5-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a loan agreement with Cheviot Savings Bank
10   17-  for improvements to main sewer line on Glenmore Avenue.
     11
11-  6-7- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton
11   11   County pursuant to the provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act
          of 1974.
11-  6-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a new agreement with Integrys Energy
13   21-  Services for the administration of the city’s natural gas aggregation program.
     11
11-  7-   Accepting the bid of Mt. Pleasant Blacktopping for the reconstruction and
20   19-  improvement of Glenmore Avenue.
     11
11-  8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the Cheviot Savings Bank
26   16-  for a property tax exemption in a community reinvestment area.
     11
11-  8-   Accepting the bid of North American Salt Company for the provision of ice
27   16-  control salt for the 2011-2012 winter season.
     11
11-  8-   Approving the contract with the Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General
28   16-  Health District for the provision of public health services in 2012.
     11
     2-
12-3 21-  Approving a joint economic development district with Green Township, Ohio.
     12
12-  4-   Approving the bid of Lithko Restoration for the renovation of the Cheviot
09   17-  Fieldhouse.
     12
12-  7-3- Authorizing participation in the Hamilton County energy efficiency block grant
12   12   program, and an energy services agreement with Ameresco, Inc.
12-  5-   Accepting the bids of Adleta, Inc., and the Fred A. Nemann Company for work on
13   15-  the Cheviot 2012 street improvement project.
     12
12-  7-   Accepting the bid of Morton Salt Company for provision of ice control salt for
15   17-  the 2012-2013 winter season.
     12
12-  7-   Authorizing an amendment to the city’s contract with Integrys Energy Services -
18   31-  Natural Gas, L.L.C.
     12
12-  10-
20   16-  Authorizing an extension of the CRA agreement with Cheviot Savings Bank.
     12
12-  10-  Approving a contract with the District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County
27   2-12 General Health District for the provision of public health services to the
          city.
12-  11-  Approving the agreement with the Hamilton County Land Reutilization Corporation
33   20-  for the demolition of the Morebattle Building.
     12
12-  11-
34   20-  Correcting a clerical error in Ordinance No. 12-20.
     12
     1-   Approving the Pension Protection Act, Heroes Earning Assistance and Relief Tax
13-1 15-  Act of 2008, the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 amendment
     13   to the city OAPFF 457 plan.
13-  5-7- Accepting the bid of Barrett Paving for work on the Cheviot 2013 street
06   13   improvement project.
     5-   Approving the creation of a joint economic development district with Green
13-8 22-  Township, for the property being developed as Mercy Hospitals West.
     13
13-  6-4- Approving the automatic aggregation program agreement with Integrys Energy
13   13   Services - Natural Gas, L.L.C.
13-  7-2- Approving the creation of a joint economic development district with Colerain
14   13   Township, to be known as the Liberty Nursing Health Care Joint Economic
          Development District.
13-  7-2- Approving a new collective bargaining agreement with the Cheviot Professional
15   13   Firefighters.
13-  7-   Approving the bid of North American Salt Company for provision of ice control
17   16-  salt for the 2013-2014 winter season.
     13
13-  9-   Approving an amended collective bargaining agreement with the Cheviot
21   17-  Professional Firefighters.
     13
13-  9-   Approving a community facilities grant agreement with the U.S. Department of
22   17-  Agriculture.
     13
14-4 1-1- Approving an agreement with the Office of the Ohio Attorney General for the
     14   collection of delinquent debt.
14-5 1-1- Approving the Hamilton County amended and restated mutual aid agreement for law
     14   enforcement.
14-  4-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with McNeilus
11   15-  Truck and Manufacturing Company.
     14
14-  5-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with J.K.
13   20-  Muerer Company.
     14
14-  6-3- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton
14   14   County, Ohio.
14-  6-   Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
15   17-  Commissioners.
     14
14-  7-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Adleta,
18   15-  Inc.
     14
14-  8-   Approving the Green Township - City of Cheviot Joint Economic Development
19   19-  District IV contract.
     14
     2-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with H.M.E.-
15-4 17-  Ahrens/Fox.
     15
     3-
15-8 17-  Approving a financing agreement with Community Leasing Partners.
     15
15-  5-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Shamrock
17   15-  Enterprises.
     15
15-  10-
28   20-  Approving an extension of the city’s contract with Rumpke, Inc.
     15
     6-   Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
16-5 21-  Commissioners.
     16
     7-   Approving the Green Township - City of Cheviot Joint Economic Development
16-9 19-  District V contract.
     16
16-  9-6- Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
12   16   Commissioners.
17-  2-7- Authorizing an agreement between the city and local organizations for the use
06   17   of the municipal pool.
17-  6-6- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Adleta
12   17   Construction.
17-  6-6- Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
14   17   Commissioners.
17-  6-6- Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
15   17   Commissioners.
17-  9-5- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract with Barrett
19   17   Paving.
17-  12-
27   19-  Approving an extension of the city’s contract with Rumpke, Inc.
     17
Res. 3-   Continuing the ten-year Community Reinvestment Area agreement with the Family
18-  20-  Dollar Store.
03   18
Res. 3-   Continuing the 15-year Community Reinvestment Area agreement with MainSource
18-  20-  Bank.
04   18
Res. 6-   Authorizing the Mayor to make specific changes to the collective bargaining
18-  19-  agreement between the city and the Fraternal Order of Police/Ohio Labor
06   18   Council, Inc.
18-  7-3- Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the reconstruction of Trevor and Alma
15   18   Avenues.
18-  8-   Approving the Green Township - City of Cheviot Joint Economic Development
18   21-  District VI contract.
     18
18-  10-  Amending Ord. 18-18 to correct the identification of the site of the Green
23   16-  Township - City of Cheviot Joint Economic Development District VI.
     18
Res. 2-5- Approving the Hamilton County Amended and Restated Mutual Aid Agreement for Law
19-  19   Enforcement.
02
Res. 2-5-
19-  19   Approving contract with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council, Inc.
06
Res. 3-
19-  19-  Approving contract with the Cheviot Professional Firefighters.
09   19
Res. 3-   Continuing the ten-year Community Reinvestment Area agreement with the Family
19-  19-  Dollar Store.
10   19
19-  3-
09   19-  Terminating the Community Reinvestment Area agreement with Mainsource Bank.
     19
19-  4-2- Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to obtain a loan and purchase a garbage
10   19   truck.
Res. 5-7- Approving contract with the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal
19-  19   Employees Labor Union.
15
Res. 8-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into an agreement for the
19-  20-  purchase of electricity for the city’s Electricity Aggregation Program.
21   19
19-  12-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke Sanitary Landfill, Inc. for the disposal of solid
31   17-  waste and authorizing the Safety-Service Director to execute contract with
     19   same.
20-  1-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into an assessment agreement
02   21-  with the City of Cincinnati, on behalf of Greater Cincinnati Water Works, for a
     20   lead service line replacement program.
20-  2-4- Accepting the bid of Barrett Paving Materials Inc. for the reconstruction of
04   20   the municipal parking lot on North Bend Road and portions of Saint Martin’s
          Place.
Res. 3-   Continuing the ten-year Community Reinvestment Area agreement with the Family
20-  17-  Dollar Store.
05   20
20-  9-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a contract to purchase a
23   24-  2020 Ford F-450 4x4 ambulance.
     20
Res. 10-
20-  6-20 Approving the 2020 Cares Act local jurisdiction agreement with Hamilton County.
13
Res. 1-5- Accepting the transfer of the Community Reinvestment Area agreement for the
21-  21   Family Dollar Store from Melodie Real Estate Partners, LLC to Harrison Avenue
01        Equities, LLC.
21-  1-   Approving the Green Township - City of Cheviot Joint Economic Development
03   19-  District VII contract.
     21
21-  2-   Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the reconstruction of Alma, Davis,
05   16-  Delmar, Olivette, and North Bend.
     21
Res. 3-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into an agreement for the
21-  21-  purchase of electricity for the city’s Electricity Aggregation Program.
04   21
Res. 3-   Continuing the ten-year Community Reinvestment Area agreement with the Family
21-  21-  Dollar Store.
05   21
Res. 6-   Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into an agreement with the
21-  15-  Ohio Department of Natural Resources for a Capital Improvement Community Park,
08   21   Recreation/Conservation Pass Through Grant.
21-  10-  Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a Job Creation Tax Credit
19   5-21 agreement with Modern Holding Company.
21-  10-  Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
21   19-  Commissioners relative to the improvement of North Bend Road.
     21
22-  1-   Accepting the bid of Alpha Construction for improvements to the Harvest Home
03   18-  Lodge.
     22
22-  2-1- Accepting the bid of Adleta, Inc. for the reconstruction of Herbert, Florence,
04   22   Alta Vista, and Mayfair.
         
 
TABLE III. CIVIL DEFENSE
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
221      10-3-50  Director of civil defense authorized
290      1-10-53  Civil defense organization authorized
370      10-18-55 Amend paragraph 5 of civil defense agreement
371      10-18-55 Amend paragraph 2 of civil defense agreement
1179     __       Authorizes pre-disaster planning
 
TABLE IV. ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
45       3-15-33  Legal description
61       3-21-34  Legal description
111      11-3-37  Legal description
121      6-1-38   Westmont Park Subdivision
614      6-18-63  Legal description
685      11-16-65 Legal description
19-28    10-1-19  Approving annexation agreement with Green Township for the
                  annexation of certain property to the city.
20-05    3-17-20  Accepting the annexation of 2.5 acres from Green Township to
                  the city.
                 
 
TABLE V. REAL ESTATE
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No.   Date     Description
27         9-5-45   Purchase a strip of ground from the Fenton Matlack property
                    on the west side of North Bend Road
192        12-16-42 Purchase of property at the northeast corner of Mayfair and
                    Applegate Ave.
354        3-27-55  Purchase property in Green Township to be used in
                    connection with the incinerator
367        8-2-55   Use certain property near Harrison and Glenmore Ave. for
                    municipal parking facilities
380        12-6-55  Use certain property owned by the Cheviot Building and Loan
                    Company for parking facilities
451        4-15-58  Appropriate realty for avenue
452        5-6-58   Use certain property owned by Thomas J. Guidara for parking
                    facilities
462        1-6-59   Use certain property owned by Carl Waltz and the Citizens
                    Discount Corporation for parking facilities
465        3-3-59   Rental of part of city hall to deputy registrar of water
                    vehicles
466        3-3-59   Purchase realty at south end of Meyerfeld Ave.
467        3-3-59   Purchase realty at south end of Meyerfeld Ave.
478        6-16-59  Lease 390 square feet on second floor of Cheviot City Hall
                    to the U. S. Government
524        9-20-60  Transfer lot at Memorial Center
532        10-18-60 Lease lot of S.W. corner
535        10-18-60 Lease lot S.W. corner of North Bend Road
998        - -75    Sale of incinerator and landfill property on South Road
1079       1-13-78  Purchase realty east of city hall
1208       5-29-81  Authorizing advertisement for bids for sale of property at
                    3730 Harrison Ave.
1212       8-11-81  Sale of real property known as 3730 Harrison Ave. to
                    William Mahan.
1227       4-13-82  Authorizing the sale of Ferdinand Alley between Applegate
                    Ave. and Broadwell Ave.
1249       9-28-82  Authorizing purchase of 3806 Harrison Ave.
97-15      6-17-97  Authorizing the sale of a portion of Ferdinand Alley
                    between Applegate Avenue and Dina Avenue.
                    Authorizing the transfer of the cemetery property on
07-17      6-5-07   Harrison Avenue from the Faith Fellowship Church to the
                    city
07-33      10-16-07 Approving the purchase of real estate at 3939 Davis Avenue
07-35      11-20-07 Authorizing the purchase of real property at 3541 Bruestle
                    Avenue
07-37      12-4-07  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase real property from the
                    United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
08-02      3-18-08  Approving a new lease agreement with the Board of Hamilton
                    County Commissioners
08-07      4-1-08   Authorizing the sale of property at 3939 Davis Avenue
08-22      7-1-08   Approving a lease agreement with Nakia McCrary, d.b.a.
                    Kia's Kids Childcare Center on North Bend Road
08-24      9-2-08   Authorizing the sale of the property at 3541 Bruestle
                    Avenue
09-05      4-7-09   Authorizing sale of property at 3936 Glenmore Avenue
                    Approving transfer of Family Dollar store property from
11-15      6-21-11  Excell Cheviot, LLC, to the NJM Partnership, and assignment
                    of the tax abatement.
11-23      7-19-11  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase certain real estate from
                    the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                    Extending the authorization of the Mayor to purchase
11-36      12-20-11 certain real estate from the U.S. Department of Housing and
                    Urban Development.
12-02      2-7-12   Authorizing the transfer of real estate to and from the
                    Cheviot Savings Bank.
12-19      10-2-12  Transferring to Cincinnati Habitat for Humanity the real
                    property located at 3771 Darwin Avenue.
13-3       3-5-13   Approving a new lease agreement with Hamilton County for
                    its use of the Cheviot Municipal Building for Area Court.
                    Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to sell the real
15-27      10-20-15 estate at 3236 Harrison Avenue for an amount not less than
                    $5,000.
                    Approving a new lease agreement with Hamilton County, Ohio
17-16      6-20-17  for its use of the Cheviot Municipal Building for Area
                    Court.
Res. 19-08 3-19-19  Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to advertise for
                    bids for the sale of a certain parcel of real property.
19-13      5-7-19   Authorizing the sale of a certain parcel of real property.
                    Authorizing the Safety-Service Director to enter into a
Res. 22-03 1-18-22  contract with Capco Real Estate for the purchase of certain
                    real property located at 3625 Harrison Avenue.
                   
 
TABLE VI. ACCEPTANCES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
9        3-15-44
90       10-17-47
120      4-23-48
127      7-9-48
209      6-20-50
214      5-2-50
215      5-2-50
468      3-3-59
469      3-3-59
480      7-7-59
481      7-7-59
482      7-7-59
489      10-20-59
                  Authorizing the acceptance by the city of certain real
02-02    1-15-02  property at the intersection of North Bend Road and Westwood
                  Northern Boulevard to be conveyed by Hamilton County.
 
TABLE VII. ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
790      2-25-69
809      10-28-69
842      10-27-70
880      4-4-72
1136     8-28-79  Rezoned 3828 and 3832 Trevor Ave. from Office and
                  Professional to Business B.
                  Rezoned real estate located at Lot No. 6 of Westwood Northern
1356     7-8-86   Boulevard Condo Subdivision from Residential to Office and
                  Professional.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
History References to Ohio Revised Code
References to 1973 Code
References to Ordinances
HISTORY REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor's note:
This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been substantially
duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All legislative history
references to "(R.C. § xx.xx)" which appear at the end of sections (or
divisions of sections) in the city's Code of Ordinances have been listed here.
Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is based on R.C.
§ 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for "4511.19" and examine the
entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of Ordinances
section is §
73.01, which means that §
73.01 (or a part thereof) is based directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. SEC. CODE SEC.
R.C. SEC.                                CODE SEC.
1.01                                     10.01
1.02                                     10.02
1.05                                     10.02
1.14                                     10.03
1.15                                     10.03
1.23                                     10.05
1.42                                     10.03
1.43                                     10.03
1.44                                     10.02
1.45                                     10.03
1.50                                     10.07
1.57                                     10.04
1.58                                     10.04
1.59                                     10.02
9.481                                    30.10
124.41                                   33.16
701.01                                   10.02
715.67                                   130.99
731.01                                   31.02
731.02                                   31.03
731.04                                   31.05
731.05                                   31.15
731.06                                   31.16
731.07                                   31.17
731.08                                   31.18
731.43                                   31.06
731.44                                   31.07
731.45                                   31.08
731.46                                   31.01
731.56                                   30.05
733.02                                   35.01
733.03                                   35.02,
                                         35.60
733.05                                   35.03
733.06                                   35.04
733.07                                   35.05
733.08                                   35.06
733.10                                   35.25
733.11                                   35.26
733.12                                   35.27
733.13                                   35.28
733.14                                   35.29
733.15                                   35.30
733.16                                   35.31
733.17                                   35.32
733.18                                   35.33
733.20                                   35.35
733.30                                   35.07
733.31                                   35.08
733.32                                   35.09
733.33                                   35.10
733.34                                   35.11
733.35                                   35.12
733.36                                   31.19
733.37                                   31.20
733.38                                   31.21
733.39                                   31.22
733.42                                   35.40
733.43                                   35.41
733.44                                   35.42
733.45                                   35.43
733.46                                   35.44
733.47                                   35.45
733.49                                   35.50
733.50                                   35.51
733.51                                   35.52
733.53                                   35.53
733.68                                   30.01
733.70                                   30.02
735.02                                   35.62
737.02                                   35.62
901.51                                   131.15
901.99(A)                                131.15
1533.171(A)                              131.20,
                                         135.041
1533.99(C)                               131.20,
                                         135.041
2901.01                                  130.02
2901.02                                  130.03
2901.03                                  130.04
2901.04                                  130.05
2901.09                                  130.15
2901.13(A)                               130.06
2901.21                                  130.07
2901.22                                  130.08
2901.23                                  130.09
2901.24                                  130.10
2903.05                                  135.01
2903.06                                  135.02
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G) 135.03
2903.13                                  135.03
2903.14                                  135.04
2903.21                                  135.05
2903.211                                 135.061
2903.22                                  135.06
2905.03                                  135.07
2905.12                                  135.08
2907.01                                  133.01
2907.04                                  133.02
2907.06                                  133.03
2907.08                                  133.05
2907.09                                  133.04
2907.10                                  133.06
2907.23                                  133.08
2907.242907.24(A), (C)(1), (D), (E)      133.09
2907.241                                 133.09
2907.25                                  133.07
2907.31                                  133.16
2907.33                                  133.17
2907.35                                  133.18
2907.36                                  133.19
2907.37                                  133.20
2907.38                                  133.10
2907.39                                  133.11
2907.40                                  133.12
2909.01                                  131.01
2909.03                                  131.10
2909.06                                  131.12
2909.07                                  131.13
2909.09                                  131.12
2909.10                                  131.21
2909.101                                 131.22
2909.11(B) - (D)                         131.11
2909.31                                  136.21
2911.21                                  131.14
2911.211                                 131.141
2911.23                                  131.14
2911.32                                  131.37
2913.01                                  131.01
2913.02                                  131.25
2913.03                                  131.29
2913.04                                  131.30
2913.07                                  131.39
2913.11                                  131.31
2913.21                                  131.32
2913.33                                  131.33
2913.41                                  131.34
2913.42                                  131.38
2913.43                                  131.36
2913.44                                  132.10
2913.441                                 132.11
2913.45                                  131.35
2913.51                                  131.28
2913.61(B) - (E)                         131.26
2913.71                                  131.27
2915.01                                  134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                    134.02
2915.03                                  134.03
2915.04                                  134.04
2915.05                                  134.05
2915.06                                  134.07
2915.061                                 134.07
2915.09                                  134.10
2915.091                                 134.14
2915.092                                 134.06
2915.093                                 134.15
2915.094                                 134.16
2915.10                                  134.11
2915.11                                  134.12
2915.12                                  134.13
2915.13                                  134.15
2915.14                                  134.17
2917.03                                  132.03
2917.031                                 132.03
2917.04                                  132.02
2917.05                                  132.04
2917.11                                  132.01
2917.12                                  132.05
2917.13                                  132.06
2917.21                                  132.07
2917.211                                 133.14
2917.31                                  132.08
2917.32                                  132.09
2917.41                                  132.19
2919.01                                  135.15
2919.11                                  135.16
2919.12                                  135.16
2919.121                                 135.16
2919.122                                 135.16
2919.14                                  135.17
2919.18                                  135.16
2919.21                                  135.20
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                    135.19
2919.23                                  135.22
2919.231                                 135.221
2919.24                                  135.23
2919.25                                  135.18
2921.01                                  136.01
2921.13                                  136.10
2921.21                                  136.05
2921.22                                  136.06
2921.23                                  136.07
2921.29                                  136.21
2921.31                                  136.11
2921.32                                  136.12
2921.321                                 136.20
2921.33                                  136.13
2921.331                                 70.03
2921.36                                  136.14
2921.37                                  136.14
2921.42                                  136.25
2921.43                                  136.26
2921.44                                  136.27
2921.45                                  136.28
2921.51                                  132.12
2923.02                                  130.11
2923.03                                  130.12
2923.12                                  137.02
2923.15                                  137.03
2923.16                                  137.04
2923.19                                  137.05
2923.201                                 137.10
2923.211                                 137.07
2925.01                                  138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                    138.20
2925.11                                  138.10
2925.12                                  138.11
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                    138.12
2925.14                                  138.25
2925.141                                 138.25
2925.31                                  138.13
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)          138.23
2925.34                                  138.27
2925.36(A) - (C)                         138.22
2925.37(A), (G), (M)                     138.24
2925.50                                  138.03
2925.51                                  138.02
2925.51                                  138.02
2925.55                                  138.26
2925.56                                  138.26
2925.571                                 138.26
2925.58                                  138.26
2925.62                                  138.28
2927.01                                  139.01
2927.11                                  139.02
2927.15                                  139.11
2927.17                                  133.13
2929.21                                  130.99
2929.22                                  130.14
2929.23                                  133.99
2929.24                                  130.99
2929.25                                  130.99
2929.26                                  130.99
2929.27                                  130.99
2929.28                                  130.99
2929.31                                  130.99
2935.041                                 131.02
2935.28                                  70.13
2935.36(E)                               130.13
2981.07                                  131.40
3701.82(A) - (C)                         139.03
3701.99(B)                               139.03
3715.05                                  138.26
3715.06                                  138.26
3719.19                                  138.03
3737.62                                  131.16
3737.99(D)                               131.16
3743.01(F)                               110.20
3767.13                                  139.07
3767.29                                  139.04
3767.32                                  139.05
                                         139.04 ,
3767.99                                  139.05 ,
                                         139.07
3781.55                                  133.04
4301.62                                  132.17
4301.99(A)                               132.17
4501.01(LL)                              70.01
4501.01(TT)                              78.11
4503.21(A), (B)                          71.15
4507.02(A)                               71.02
4507.03                                  71.02
4507.30                                  71.04
4507.30(A)(5)                            71.01,
                                         71.04
4507.30(B)                               71.01
4507.31                                  71.05
4507.321                                 71.07
4507.35                                  71.03
4507.36(A), (B)                          71.01
4507.99(A)                               71.99
4509.102                                 136.10
4510.037                                 71.06
                                         71.06,
4510.04                                  71.062,
                                         71.063,
                                         71.064
4510.05                                  71.10
4510.11                                  71.06
4510.111                                 71.06
4510.12                                  71.061
4510.14                                  71.062
4510.16                                  71.063
4510.15                                  71.10
4510.21                                  71.064
4510.44                                  73.03
4511.01                                  70.01
4511.03                                  70.05
4511.031                                 70.24
4511.04                                  70.02
4511.041                                 70.052
4511.05                                  70.06
4511.051                                 70.07
4511.08                                  70.08
4511.12(A), (B)                          70.15
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                   70.15
4511.121(D)                              70.15
4511.13                                  70.16
4511.131                                 70.17
4511.14                                  70.18
4511.16                                  70.20
4511.17                                  70.21
4511.181                                 73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                         73.01
4511.191(A), (D)                         73.011
4511.192                                 73.011
4511.20(A), (B)                          73.10
4511.201(A), (B)                         73.10
4511.202                                 73.11
4511.203                                 71.08
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)               73.15
4511.213                                 72.60
4511.214                                 73.19
4511.215                                 73.19
4511.216                                 73.19
4511.22                                  73.16
4511.24                                  73.17
4511.25                                  72.01
4511.251                                 73.18
4511.26                                  72.03
4511.27                                  72.04
4511.28                                  72.05
4511.29                                  72.06
4511.30                                  72.07
4511.31                                  72.08
4511.32                                  72.09
4511.33                                  72.02
4511.34                                  72.11
4511.35                                  72.10
4511.36                                  72.12
4511.37                                  72.13
4511.38                                  72.14
4511.39                                  72.15
4511.40                                  72.16
4511.41                                  72.30
4511.42                                  72.31
4511.43                                  72.32
4511.431                                 72.33
4511.432                                 72.33
4511.44                                  72.34
4511.441                                 78.02
4511.45                                  72.35
4511.451                                 72.36
4511.452                                 78.06
4511.454                                 72.35
4511.46                                  78.04
4511.47                                  78.07
4511.48                                  78.05
4511.481                                 78.10
4511.49                                  78.03
4511.50                                  78.01
4511.51                                  78.09
4511.511                                 78.08
4511.512                                 78.11
4511.513                                 78.12
4511.514                                 78.13
4511.52                                  75.01
4511.521                                 75.02
4511.522                                 75.03
4511.53                                  75.04
4511.54                                  75.05
4511.55                                  75.06
4511.56                                  75.07
4511.60                                  72.19
4511.61                                  72.45
4511.62                                  72.46
4511.63                                  72.47
4511.64                                  72.48
4511.65                                  72.40
4511.66                                  76.01
4511.661                                 76.02
4511.67                                  76.03
4511.68                                  76.04
4511.69                                  76.05
4511.70                                  72.55
4511.701                                 72.56
4511.71                                  72.57
4511.711(A), (B)                         72.58
4511.712                                 72.59
4511.713(A), (B)                         72.58
4511.714                                 72.57
4511.72(A), (B)                          72.60
4511.73                                  72.61
4511.74                                  72.62
4511.75                                  77.01
4511.751                                 77.02
4511.76(C), (F), (G)                     77.03
4511.761                                 77.04
4511.762                                 77.05
4511.763                                 77.06
4511.764                                 77.07
4511.77                                  77.08
4511.771                                 77.09
4511.772                                 72.74
4511.79                                  73.02
4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L)                 72.73
4511.82                                  72.625
4511.99                                  70.99
4511.991                                 70.99
4513.02(A), (H)                          73.12
4513.021                                 74.40
4513.03                                  74.01
4513.04                                  74.02
4513.05                                  74.07
4513.06                                  74.08
4513.07                                  74.17
4513.071                                 74.09
4513.08                                  74.14
4513.09                                  74.15
4513.10                                  74.10
4513.11                                  74.16
4513.111                                 74.16
4513.12                                  74.12
4513.13                                  74.11
4513.14                                  74.03
4513.15                                  74.04
4513.16                                  74.05
4513.17                                  74.13
4513.171                                 74.13
4513.18                                  74.18
4513.181                                 74.19
4513.182                                 74.20
4513.19                                  74.06
4513.20                                  74.25
4513.201                                 74.26
4513.202                                 74.27
4513.21                                  74.30
4513.22                                  74.41
4513.23                                  74.37
4513.24                                  74.35
4513.241                                 74.36
4513.25                                  74.43
4513.26                                  74.36
4513.261                                 74.31
4513.262                                 74.44
4513.27                                  74.32
4513.28                                  74.33
4513.29                                  74.45
4513.30                                  74.56
4513.31                                  74.57
4513.32                                  74.58
4513.34                                  74.55
4513.36                                  70.04
4513.361                                 70.14
4513.64                                  94.13
4513.66                                  70.145
4513.68                                  70.145
                                         74.10,
                                         74.20,
                                         74.25 -
                                         74.27,
4513.99                                  74.32,
                                         74.36,
                                         74.43,
                                         74.45,
                                         74.55  -
                                         74.58
4519.401                                 73.19
4549.02                                  73.25
4549.021                                 73.26
4549.03                                  73.27
4549.05                                  73.30
4549.081(B), (C)                         70.15
4549.10                                  71.17
4549.11                                  71.18
4549.12                                  71.19
4549.20                                  74.53
4933.22                                  131.17
5577.03                                  74.59
5577.05                                  74.47
5577.06                                  74.47
5577.11                                  74.46
5577.15                                  74.58
5577.99(C)                               74.47
5577.99(E)                               74.46
5589.12                                  131.03
5589.99(B)                               131.03
 
REFERENCES TO 1973 CODE
1973 CODE SEC. 1980 CODE SEC.
1973 CODE SEC. 1980 CODE SEC.
30.03          30.03
30.04          30.04
30.05          30.05
31.04          31.25
31.05          31.26
31.06          31.27
31.07          31.28
32.01          32.01
33.01          33.01
33.02          33.10
33.03          33.11
33.04          33.12
33.05          33.13
33.06          33.14
33.07          33.15
33.10          33.25
33.11          33.26
34.01          11.01
50.01          50.01
51.01          51.01
51.02          51.02
51.03          51.03
51.04          51.04
51.05          51.05
51.06          51.10
51.07          51.11
51.08          51.15
51.09          51.16
51.10          51.17
51.11          51.18
51.12          51.19
51.13          51.25
70.01          70.02
70.02          70.01
70.03          70.05
70.04          70.15
70.05          70.03
70.06-70.10    70.22
               70.15,
70.11          74.03,
               74.07,
               74.17
70.12          70.15
70.13          70.16
70.14          70.20
71.01          74.01,
               74.02
71.02          74.16
71.03          74.08
71.04          74.14
71.05          74.10
71.06          74.11,
               74.12
71.07          74.04
71.08          74.06
71.10          72.18
71.11          72.23
71.12          73.12
71.13          74.42
71.14          74.43
71.15          74.25
71.16          74.41
71.17          74.30
71.18          75.07
71.19          74.37
71.20          74.41
71.21          74.50
71.22          72.36
71.24          71.16,
               71.20
71.25          71.15
71.26          74.35
71.27          74.35
71.28          74.35
71.29          74.49
71.30          74.31
71.31          74.48
71.32          74.15
71.33          74.56
71.34          74.57
74.35          74.57
71.36          74.57
71.37          74.45
71.38          72.55
71.39          74.59
71.40          74.60
71.41          74.61
71.42          70.23
71.44          75.01
71.45          72.25
71.46          72.55
71.47          72.66
71.48          72.55
71.49          71.02
71.52          76.02
71.53          70.12
72.01          71.04
72.03          73.04
72.06          75.08
72.07          72.35
72.08          73.15
72.09          73.15
72.10          73.16
72.11          73.17
72.12          72.60
72.13          72.60
72.14          72.63
72.15          72.11
72.16          75.05
72.17          78.09
72.18          72.14
72.19          72.61
72.20          72.14
72.21          73.18
72.23          74.58
72.24          72.32
72.25          70.16
72.26          70.18
72.29          72.30
72.30          72.31
72.31          72.32
72.32          72.34
72.33          72.59
72.34          78.05
72.35          78.01
72.36          78.03
72.37          72.64
72.38          72.01
72.39          72.01
72.40          72.02
72.41          72.19
72.42          72.70
72.43          72.09
72.44          72.03
72.45          72.04
72.46          72.05
72.47          78.04
72.48          72.06
72.49          72.24
72.50          70.22
72.51          72.15
72.52          72.16
72.53          72.12
72.54          72.20
72.55          72.21
72.56          72.65
72.57          71.02
72.58          78.04
73.01          76.10
73.02          76.11
73.03          76.12
73.04          76.13
73.05          76.04
73.06          76.15
73.07          76.16
73.08          76.17
73.09          76.02
73.10          76.18
73.11          72.71
73.13          76.20
73.14          76.25
73.15          76.26
73.16          76.27
73.17          76.28
73.18          76.05
73.19          76.35
73.20          76.40
73.21          76.41
73.22          76.42
73.23          76.43
73.24          76.44
73.25          76.45
73.26          76.50
73.27          76.51
73.28          76.52
73.99          76.99
74.01          72.71
74.02          72.68
74.03          72.69
74.04          72.62
74.05          70.06
74.06          70.06
               73.25,
74.07          73.26,
               73.27
74.08          72.17
74.09          72.67
74.10          78.09
74.11          70.10
74.13          72.80
74.14          72.75
74.15          72.76
74.16          72.77
74.17          72.78
74.18          70.11
74.19          79.01
74.20          79.02
74.21          79.03
74.22          79.04
74.23          72.72
74.24          79.05
74.25          79.06
74.26          79.07
74.27          70.01
74.28          77.10
74.29          77.04
74.30          77.11
74.31          77.12
74.32          77.13
74.33          77.14
74.34          77.09
74.35          77.15
74.99          77.99
90.01          90.01
90.02          90.02
90.03          90.03
90.04          90.04
90.05          90.05
90.06          90.06
90.07          90.07
90.08          90.08
94.01          94.01
94.02          94.02
94.03          94.03
94.04          94.04
94.05          94.05
94.06          94.06
94.07          94.07
94.08          94.08
94.09          94.09
95.01          93.01
95.02          93.02
95.03          93.03
95.04          93.04
110.01         110.01
110.02         110.02
110.03         110.03
110.04         110.04
110.05         110.05
110.06         110.06
110.07         110.07
110.08         110.08
110.09         110.09
110.10         110.10
110.11         110.11
110.12         110.15
110.13         110.16
110.15         110.17
110.17         110.21
110.18         110.22
110.19         110.23
110.21         110.25,
               110.26
110.22         110.27
110.23         110.28
110.24         110.29
110.25         110.30
110.26         110.31
110.27         110.32
110.28         110.33
110.29         110.34
110.35         110.50
110.37         110.51
110.38         110.52
110.39         110.53
110.40         110.54
110.44         110.60
110.45         110.65
111.01         111.01
111.02         111.02
111.03         111.03
111.04         111.04
111.05         111.05
111.06         111.06
111.07         111.07
111.08         111.08
111.09         111.09
111.10         111.10
111.11         111.11
150.01         150.01
150.02         150.02
150.03         150.03
150.04         150.04,
               150.05
150.06         150.06
150.07         150.07,
               150.08
150.09         150.09
150.10         150.10
150.11         150.11
150.12         150.12
150.13         150.13
150.14         150.14
150.15         150.15
150.16         150.16
150.17         150.17
150.18         150.18
151.01         151.01,
               151.02
151.03         151.03
151.05         151.04
152.05         152.05
152.06         152.06
152.07         152.07
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
ORD. NO.    DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
9           3-15-44     T.S.O. VI
27          9-5-45      T.S.O. V
45          3-15-33     T.S.O. IV
61          3-21-34     T.S.O. IV
68          7-18-34     T.S.O. I
90          10-17-47    T.S.O. VI
111         11-3-37     T.S.O. IV
120         4-23-48     T.S.O. VI
121         6-1-38      T.S.O. IV
127         7-9-48      T.S.O. VI
130         - -48       110.17
144         2- -49      T.S.O. I
192         12-16-42    T.S.O. V
209         6-20-50     T.S.O. VI
214         5-2-50      T.S.O. VI
215         5-2-50      T.S.O. VI
221         10-3-50     T.S.O. III
290         1-10-53     T.S.O. III
354         3-27-55     T.S.O. V
367         8-2-55      T.S.O. V
370         10-18-55    T.S.O. III
371         10-18-55    T.S.O. III
380         12-6-55     T.S.O. V
388         2-2-56      T.S.O. I
451         4-15-58     T.S.O. V
452         5-6-58      T.S.O. V
462         1-6-59      T.S.O. V
465         3-3-59      T.S.O. V
466         3-3-59      T.S.O. V
467         3-3-59      T.S.O. V
468         3-3-59      T.S.O. VI
469         3-3-59      T.S.O. VI
478         6-16-59     T.S.O. V
480         7-7-59      T.S.O. VI
481         7-7-59      T.S.O. VI
482         7-7-59      T.S.O. VI
489         10-20-59    T.S.O. VI
490         1-5-60      T.S.O. II
508         3-1-60      T.S.O. II
524         9-20-60     T.S.O. V
532         10-18-60    T.S.O. V
535         10-18-60    T.S.O. V
544         3-21-61     T.S.O. II
552         5-16-61     T.S.O. I
614         6-18-63     T.S.O. IV
665         4-13-65     T.S.O. I
685         11-16-65    T.S.O. IV
711         9-19-66     33.27
734         7-6-67      74.40
737         9-19-67     94.10 -
                        94.12
738         9-19-67     T.S.O. II
739         10-3-67     T.S.O. II
756         3-12-68     T.S.O. II
778         9-24-68     T.S.O. II
790         2-25-69     T.S.O. VII
806         8-26-69     Ch. 36
808         9-23-69     36.17
809         10-28-69    T.S.O. VII
842         10-27-70    T.S.O. VII
880         4-4-72      T.S.O. VII
894         10-24-72    11.01
926         11-27-73    33.28
928         12-4-73     33.16
                        130.01 -
                        130.08,
                        130.11 -
                        130.14,
                        131.01,
                        131.03,
                        131.04,
                        131.12,
                        131.19,
                        131.25,
                        131.28 -
                        131.30,
                        131.32 -
                        131.34,
                        131.36,
                        131.38,
                        132.01 -
                        132.03,
                        132.05 -
                        132.07,
931         12-18-73    132.13 -
                        132.15,
                        133.02,
                        133.03,
                        133.05 -
                        133.09,
                        133.16 -
                        133.18,
                        135.03 -
                        135.07,
                        136.02,
                        136.07,
                        136.11,
                        136.13,
                        136.15 -
                        136.17,
                        137.01 -
                        137.08,
                        138.01,
                        139.04,
                        139.08 -
                        139.10
964         10-8-74     151.01
965         10-8-74     152.01
966         12-10-74    110.70 -
                        110.78
970         1-7-75      72.93 - 72.98
972         1-28-75     131.12 -
                        131.14
998         - -75       T.S.O. V
1001        7-8-75      33.17
1007        9-9-75      70.16
1016        2-10-76     76.35
1022        3-23-76     136.18
1034        5-18-76     33.29
1044        1-4-77      76.22
1046        1-28-77     152.01
1048        1-28-77     151.01
1051        3-8-77      T.S.O. II
1066        6-14-77     31.03
1073        10-25-77    33.30
1074        11-22-77    T.S.O. II
1079        1-13-78     T.S.O. V
1100        5-23-78     T.S.O. II
1102        8-8-78      136.11
1106        10-10-78    151.01,
                        151.02
1114        3-27-79     T.S.O. II
1126        4-24-79     T.S.O. II
1135        8-14-79     T.S.O. II
1136        8-28-79     T.S.O. VII
1163        4-22-80     76.50
1205 (Res.) 3-25-80     T.S.O. II
1177        6-24-80     91.01
1179                   T.S.O. III
1191        - -         Adopting Ord.
1192        4-28-81     110.01 -
                        110.10
1193        5-12-81     35.41
1200        5-12-81     T.S.O. I
1204        5-12-81     T.S.O. I
1208        5-29-81     T.S.O. V
1211        7-21-81     151.05,
                        151.99
1212        8-11-81     T.S.O. V
1217        10-27-81    Adopting Ord.
1219        11-10-81    T.S.O. II
1220        12-22-81    Ch. 92
1227        4-13-82     T.S.O. V
1229        4-27-82     136.19
1233        5-11-82     T.S.O. I
1247        9-28-82     153.01
1249        9-28-82     T.S.O. V
                        131.25,
                        131.28,
1252        2-8-83      131.32,
                        131.36,
                        134.05,
                        137.02
1254        3-8-83      T.S.O. II
1255        3-8-83      151.06
1256        4-21-83     76.06
                        71.11,
1257        3-22-83     73.01,
                        73.10
1261        6-14-83     90.03
1268        5-24-83     T.S.O. I
1271        5-24-83     T.S.O. I
1278        9-13-83     76.35
1302        8-13-84     90.09,
                        90.99(D)
1328        6-25-85     150.13
1334        l-28-86     33.41
1349        6-10-86     92.07
1355        - -86       T.S.O. I
1356        7-8-86      T.S.O. VII
1382        4-21-87     76.99
1385        5-19-87     76.51
1392        9-1-87      71.09
1418        7-5-88      92.08
                        33.35 -
1430        10-4-88     33.39,
                        33.42 -
                        33.43
1457        8-15-89     150.05(E)
1460        10-3-89     Adopting Ordinance
1463        12-5-89     T.S.O. II
1471        2-6-90      Ch. 154
1474        3 - 90      T.S.O. II
1479        6-19-90     T.S.O. II
1486        7-3-90      T.S.O. II
1490        8-21-90     Adopting Ordinance
1493        11-20-90    33.41
1494        10-16-90    T.S.O. II
1495        12-18-90    T.S.O. II
1501        2-5-91      T.S.O. II
1502        3-5-91      74.60
1507        5-7-91      T.S.O. II
1508        5-7-91      T.S.O. II
1521        8-6-91      T.S.O. II
1522        8-6-91      T.S.O. II
1523        8-6-91      T.S.O. II
1524        10-1-91     36.05
1528        12-17-91    T.S.O. II
1530        12-28-91    T.S.O. II
1541        3-17-92     92.08
1544        7-7-92      T.S.O. II
1545        4-21-92     151.05
1546        5-5-92      76.11
1554        7-7-92      T.S.O. II
1555        8-4-92      T.S.O. II
1559        11-3-92     30.15,
                        30.16
1560        11-17-92    50.02
1562        12-5-92     T.S.O. I
1575        2-16-93     70.09
1582        5-4-93      72.74
1583        5-4-93      72.73
1585        6-1-93      111.20
1586        6-1-93      76.42,
                        76.99
1590        6-15-93     T.S.O. II
1591        7-6-93      T.S.O. II
1593        7-6-93      30.17
1599        9-21-93     33.25
1600        9-21-93     30.18
1601        10-19-93    151.02
                        71.21 -
                        71.24,
                        73.12 -
                        73.14,
                        73.31,
1605        12-21-93    74.51,
                        75.52,
                        74.62,
                        74.63,
                        75.04,
                        76.22
1606        12-21-93    139.06
94-12       4-19-94     T.S.O. II
94-13       5-3-94      94.14
94-14       5-30-94     T.S.O. II
94-17       7-5-94      T.S.O. II
94-24       9-20-94     75.09
94-30       9-6-94      Adopting Ordinance
94-32       9-20-94     32.01
                        33.36 -
94-35       9-20-94     33.39,
                        33.43
                        33.36 -
94-36       9-20-94     33.39,
                        33.43
94-38       9-20-94     36.09,
                        36.10
94-40       9-20-94     T.S.O. II
94-42       10-4-94     T.S.O. II
94-44       12-20-94    132.14
94-45       11-15-94    76.26
94-46       11-15-94    T.S.O. II
95-1        1-3-95      30.19
95-3        1-17-95     33.42
95-4        1-23-95     T.S.O. II
95-14       3-7-95      110.65
95-18       4-4-95      T.S.O. II
95-19       4-4-95      T.S.O. II
95-20       5-2-95      T.S.O. II
95-21       5-2-95      T.S.O. II
95-22       5-16-95     T.S.O. II
95-26       6-20-95     T.S.O. II
95-27       8-1-95      36.15
95-30       8-1-95      T.S.O. II
                        33.36 -
95-33       9-5-95      33.39,
                        33.43
                        33.35 -
95-34       9-5-95      33.39,
                        33.43
95-35       - -         32.01
95-39       8-15-95     T.S.O. II
95-42       12-5-95     30.07
95-44       10-3-95     91.01
95-48       11-15-95    110.53
95-49       12-5-95     33.10 -
                        33.12
95-50       12-5-95     30.06
96-4        2-6-96      33.50 -
                        33.54
96-19       7-2-96      T.S.O. II
97-04       2-18-97     110.11 -
                        110.13
97-5        3-4-97      110.65
97-9        3-18-97     30.20
97-13       5-6-97      30.21
97-14       5-6-97      T.S.O. I
97-15       6-17-97     T.S.O. V
97-17       - -97       T.S.O. II
97-25       9-3-97      150.07
97-30       11-18-97    33.03
98-03       2-17-98     33.26
98-2        3-3-98      76.18
98-11       4-7-98      T.S.O. II
98-16       4-21-98     151.01,
                        151.02
98-22       6-16-98     Repealing
                        76.19
                        76.01,
                        76.02,
                        76.04,
98-23       6-16-98     76.05,
                        76.06,
                        76.21,
                        76.51,
                        132.17
98-24       6-16-98     76.99
98-26       6-16-98     76.42
98-33       8-4-98      Adopting Ordinance
98-35       8-18-98     33.26
98-36       8-18-98     110.13
37-1998     8-18-98     T.S.O. II
98-34       9-1-98      110.99
98-38       9-15-98     T.S.O. I
98-40       10-6-98     Repealing
                        72.79
98-45       11-17-98    76.51
98-46       11-17-98    76.99
98-44       12-15-98    110.40 -
                        110.42, Repealing 110.43 - 110.45
98-50       12-15-98    T.S.O. II
                        36.03,
                        36.05,
98-51       12-15-98    36.06,
                        36.12,
                        36.15
99-02       3-2-99      36.12
99-08       6-1-99      30.08
99-09       - -99       76.26
99-10       4-20-99     T.S.O. II
99-13       4-20-99     T.S.O. II
99-15       6-15-99     Adopting Ordinance
99-16       6-29-99     T.S.O. II
99-20       7-13-99     30.07
99-21       7-13-99     36.17
99-22       8-3-99      T.S.O. II
99-26       10-5-99     T.S.O. II
99-29       12-21-99    T.S.O. II
00-04       3-21-00     T.S.O. II
00-07       4-4-00      T.S.O. II
00-08       4-4-00      T.S.O. II
00-09       4-4-00      T.S.O. II
00-10       5-2-00      76.23, 76.99
00-18       5-16-00     90.10
00-21       5-16-00     151.07
00-22       5-2-00      35.63
00-24       6-6-00      T.S.O. II
00-26       6-6-00      11.01
00-28       7-11-00     T.S.O. II
00-33       8-15-00     36.13
00-34       8-15-00     Adopting Ordinance
00-37       10-3-00     30.22
00-39       10-17-00    T.S.O. II
00-42       11-21-00    T.S.O. II
00-45       12-19-00    T.S.O. II
00-46       1-2-01      T.S.O. II
00-47       12-19-00    T.S.O. II
                        36.02,
00-48       12-19-00    36.13,
                        36.18 -
                        36.21
00-51       12-19-00    T.S.O. II
01-03       3-6-01      31.04,
                        35.20
01-04       5-1-01      154.19
01-05       3-20-01     T.S.O. II
01-13       6-5-01      93.01
01-14       6-5-01      136.02
01-18       6-5-01      T.S.O. II
01-21       6-19-01     T.S.O. II
01-22       7-10-01     T.S.O. II
01-25       8-7-01      T.S.O. II
01-27       9-4-01      91.01
01-30       10-3-01     33.25,
                        33.26
01-36       12-5-01     110.72,
                        110.77
01-39       11-20-01    76.99
02-02       1-15-02     T.S.O. VI
02-03       1-15-02     T.S.O. II
02-04       1-15-02     150.05
02-07       3-5-02      Adopting Ordinance
02-08       3-19-02     T.S.O. I
02-10       3-19-02     T.S.O. II
02-11       4-2-02      T.S.O. II
02-12       4-16-02     T.S.O. II
02-14       - -02       T.S.O. II
02-16       6-4-02      T.S.O. II
02-17       6-4-02      T.S.O. I
02-18       6-18-02     33.04,
                        T.S.O. II
02-20       6-18-02     T.S.O. II
02-22       7-2-02      30.09
                        110.70,
02-25       9-3-02      110.72,
                        110.77
02-28       10-15-02    150.20,
                        150.21
02-30       10-1-02     T.S.O. II
02-34       12-3-02     154.13
02-36       11-19-02    33.36,
                        33.37
02-39       12-17-02    33.27
03-02       1-7-03      36.03
03-04       3-4-03      36.02
03-06       3-18-03     T.S.O. II
03-08       4-1-03      T.S.O. II
03-09       4-15-03     T.S.O. I
03-10       4-15-03     T.S.O. II
03-11       4-15-03     T.S.O. II
03-12       5-20-03     T.S.O. II
03-13       6-3-03      T.S.O. II
03-15       6-17-03     T.S.O. I
03-16       6-3-03      34.03
03-17       6-17-03     73.01
03-19       9-2-03      131.05
03-20       8-19-03     T.S.O. II
03-25       - -03       T.S.O. II
03-26       10-7-03     T.S.O. II
04-04       1-20-04     T.S.O. II
                        90.02,
04-05       2-17-04     90.03,
                        90.99
04-06       1-20-04     Adopting Ordinance
04-08       2-3-04      Adopting Ordinance
04-12       4-20-04     151.08
04-13       4-20-04     131.06
04-16       7-20-04     T.S.O. II
04-17       7-20-04     T.S.O. II
04-20       8-3-04      T.S.O. II
04-24       10-5-04     T.S.O. II
04-25       10-5-04     131.05
04-26       11-23-04    33.04
04-35       12-21-04    151.01,
                        151.02
05-01       1-4-05      33.26
05-02       1-4-05      T.S.O. II
05-07       3-21-05     30.23
05-09       3-15-05     T.S.O. I
05-10       4-19-05     T.S.O. I
05-13       5-17-05     156.01 -
                        156.10
05-15       6-7-05      T.S.O. II
05-16       9-6-05      T.S.O. II
05-18       8-16-05     T.S.O. I
                        33.02,
05-20       9-6-05      33.05,
                        33.35,
                        33.36
05-21       9-20-05     T.S.O. II
05-26       11-1-05     T.S.O. II
05-31       12-6-05     70.12
05-32       12-6-05     76.42
05-33       12-6-05     76.99
05-34       12-20-05    71.15,
                        71.16
06-04       3-21-06     T.S.O. II
06-05       3-21-06     70.09
06-08       4-18-06     T.S.O. II
06-10       5-16-06     T.S.O. II
06-13       5-16-06     T.S.O. II
                        150.06,
                        150.07,
                        150.09,
06-14       10-3-06     150.11,
                        155.01 -
                        155.05,
                        155.07 -
                        155.21
                        33.02,
                        33.26,
06-16       6-20-06     33.35,
                        33.36,
                        33.38
06-17       7-5-06      T.S.O. II
06-18       7-18-06     T.S.O. II
06-19       7-18-06     T.S.O. II
06-20       7-18-06     T.S.O. II
06-28       9-5-06       
                        33.42
06-32       10-17-06    T.S.O. II
                        110.01 -
06-34       12-5-06     110.10,
                        110.54,
                        110.65
06-35       12-19-06    110.60
                        151.15 -
07-02       2-6-07      151.18,
                        151.99
07-03       2-8-07      T.S.O. II
07-05       3-6-07      T.S.O. II
07-07       3-20-07     151.09
07-08       3-20-07     151.09
07-11       4-3-07      T.S.O. I
07-13       4-17-07     T.S.O. I
07-16       5-1-07      T.S.O. II
07-17       6-5-07      T.S.O. V
07-22       9-4-07      T.S.O. II
07-24       9-4-07      Adopting Ordinance
07-26       9-18-07     33.04
07-27       11-20-07    76.23
07-29       10-2-07     T.S.O. II
07-30       10-2-07     T.S.O. II
07-32       12-4-07     111.30 -
                        111.36
07-33       10-16-07    T.S.O. V
07-34       10-16-07    T.S.O. II
07-35       11-20-07    T.S.O. V
07-37       12-4-07     T.S.O. V
08-02       3-18-08     T.S.O. V
08-03       3-18-08     T.S.O. II
08-06       4-1-08      T.S.O. II
08-07       4-1-08      T.S.O. V
08-08       4-1-08      T.S.O. II
08-11       5-6-08      T.S.O. II
08-12       5-20-08     T.S.O. II
08-13       5-20-08     T.S.O. I
08-15       5-27-08     T.S.O. I
08-16       5-27-08     T.S.O. II
08-18       7-1-08      151.19
08-19       6-3-08      T.S.O. II
08-22       7-1-08      T.S.O. V
08-23       7-1-08      Repeals
                        155.06
08-24       9-2-08      T.S.O. V
08-26       9-16-08     T.S.O. II
08-28       10-21-08    137.08
                        155.03,
08-30       10-28-08    155.04,
                        155.05
08-32       10-7-08     T.S.O. II
08-43       12-16-08    T.S.O. II
09-01       3-3-09      Repeals
                        Ch. 112
09-05       4-7-09      T.S.O. V
09-07       4-21-09     T.S.O. I
09-09       5-5-09      T.S.O. II
09-10       5-5-09      T.S.O. II
09-12       7-7-09      T.S.O. II
09-14       7-21-09     T.S.O. II
09-15       7-21-09     32.01
09-16       7-21-09     T.S.O. II
09-17       8-4-09      110.80 -
                        110.94
09-19       8-4-09      T.S.O. II
09-20       9-1-09      T.S.O. II
09-22       9-5-09      T.S.O. II
09-26       10-20-09    113.01,
                        113.02
10-02       1-19-10     T.S.O. II
10-03       1-19-10     T.S.O. II
10-04       1-19-10     T.S.O. II
10-06       3-16-10     93.05,
                        93.99
10-07       2-16-10     T.S.O. II
10-09       4-6-10      35.61
10-10       3-2-10      30.09
10-13       4-6-10      T.S.O. II
10-15       5-18-10     T.S.O. II
10-17       5-18-10     T.S.O. I
10-19       6-15-10     T.S.O. II
10-20       6-15-10     T.S.O. II
10-23       6-15-10     T.S.O. II
10-24       6-15-10     Adopting Ordinance
10-25       6-15-10     T.S.O. II
10-29       7-20-10     33.35,
                        33.36
10-30       8-17-10     T.S.O. II
                        33.02,
                        33.26,
10-33       10-5-10     33.35,
                        33.36,
                        33.38
10-39       11-16-10    T.S.O. II
10-41       12-7-10     T.S.O. II
11-02       3-1-11      T.S.O. II
11-04       4-19-11     33.04
11-07       5-3-11      T.S.O. II
11-08       5-3-11      T.S.O. I
11-10       5-17-11     T.S.O. II
11-11       6-7-11      T.S.O. II
11-13       6-21-11     T.S.O. II
11-15       6-21-11     T.S.O. V
                        112.01 -
11-16       7-19-11     112.10,
                        112.99
11-20       7-19-11     T.S.O. II
11-23       7-19-11     T.S.O. V
11-26       8-16-11     T.S.O. II
11-27       8-16-11     T.S.O. II
11-28       8-16-11     T.S.O. II
11-36       12-20-11    T.S.O. V
12-02       2-7-12      T.S.O. V
12-3        2-21-12     T.S.O. II
12-09       4-17-12     T.S.O. II
12-12       7-3-12      T.S.O. II
12-13       5-15-12     T.S.O. II
12-15       7-17-12     T.S.O. II
12-18       7-31-12     T.S.O. II
12-19       10-2-12     T.S.O. V
12-20       10-16-12    T.S.O. II
12-26       10-23-12    36.01 -
                        36.04
12-27       10-2-12     T.S.O. II
12-29       12-23-12    30.09
12-33       11-20-12    T.S.O. II
12-34       11-20-12    T.S.O. II
12-38       12-18-12    50.03
13-1        1-15-13     T.S.O. II
13-3        3-5-13      T.S.O. V
13-5        4-17-13     T.S.O. I
13-06       5-7-13      T.S.O. II
13-7        6-4-13      73.111,
                        73.112
13-8        5-22-13     T.S.O. II
13-9        5-22-13     110.73,
                        110.77
13-13       6-4-13      T.S.O. II
13-14       7-2-13      T.S.O. II
13-15       7-2-13      T.S.O. II
13-17       7-16-13     T.S.O. II
13-20       10-1-13     131.142
13-21       9-17-13     T.S.O. II
13-22       9-17-13     T.S.O. II
13-27       11-19-13    50.03
14-2        1-1-14      T.S.O. I
14-3        2-18-14     150.07
14-4        1-1-14      T.S.O. II
14-5        1-1-14      T.S.O. II
14-8        2-18-14     T.S.O. I
14-11       4-15-14     T.S.O. II
14-12       5-6-14      50.03
14-13       5-20-14     T.S.O. II
14-14       6-3-14      T.S.O. II
14-15       6-7-14      T.S.O. II
14-18       7-15-14     T.S.O. II
14-19       8-19-14     T.S.O. II
14-22       9-2-14      Adopting Ordinance
15-1        3-3-15      35.63
15-4        2-17-15     T.S.O. II
15-8        3-17-15     T.S.O. II
15-11       4-7-15      T.S.O. I
15-17       5-15-15     T.S.O. II
15-18       6-16-15     155.18
15-19       7-7-15      76.35
                        114.01 -
15-21       9-15-15     114.06,
                        114.99
15-27       10-20-15    T.S.O. V
15-28       10-20-15    T.S.O. II
                        36A.01 -
                        36A.02,
                        36A.04 -
15-31       12-29-15    36A.062,
                        36A.064 -
                        36A.22,
                        36A.97 -
                        36A.99
15-32       12-1-15     T.S.O. I
16-1        1-19-16     T.S.O. I
16-3        2-2-16      76.42
16-5        6-21-16     T.S.O. II
16-9        7-19-16     T.S.O. II
16-12       9-6-16      T.S.O. II
16-22       12-20-16    T.S.O. I
17-03       1-17-17     T.S.O. I
17-06       2-7-17      T.S.O. II
17-09       3-21-17     114.04
17-10       6-6-17      131.143,
                        131.144
17-11       7-18-17     155.01,
                        155.10
17-12       6-6-17      T.S.O. II
17-14       6-6-17      T.S.O. II
17-15       6-6-17      T.S.O. II
17-16       6-20-17     T.S.O. V
17-19       9-5-17      T.S.O. II
17-21       9-5-17      131.143
17-27       12-19-17    T.S.O. II
18-04       2-6-18      T.S.O. I
18-05       2-20-18     36A.03,
                        36A.063
18-08       - -18       92.05
Res. 18-03  3-20-18     T.S.O. II
Res. 18-04  3-20-18     T.S.O. II
18-11       5-1-18      T.S.O. I
Res. 18-06  6-19-18     T.S.O. II
18-15       7-3-18      T.S.O. II
18-16       7-17-18     33.04
18-18       8-21-18     T.S.O. II
                        157.01 -
18-21       10-16-18    157.07,
                        157.99
18-23       10-16-18    T.S.O. II
Res. 19-01  1-15-19     30.11
19-03       2-5-19      131.05,
                        131.06
Res. 19-02  2-5-19      T.S.O. II
Res. 19-06  2-5-19      T.S.O. II
Res. 19-08  3-19-19     T.S.O. V
Res. 19-09  3-19-19     T.S.O. II
Res. 19-10  3-19-19     T.S.O. II
19-07       4-16-19     95.01,
                        95.99
19-09       3-19-19     T.S.O. II
19-10       4-2-19      T.S.O. II
19-13       5-7-19      T.S.O. V
Res. 19-15  5-7-19      T.S.O. II
Res. 19-21  8-20-19     T.S.O. II
Res. 19-23  9-3-19      30.24
                        150.03,
                        150.04,
19-24       9-17-19     150.11,
                        150.13,
                        150.131
                        150.03,
19-25       12-3-19     150.06,
                        150.07
                        137.01,
19-26       10-15-19    137.06,
                        137.09
19-28       10-1-19     T.S.O. IV
19-30       1-7-20      92.03
19-31       12-17-19    T.S.O. II
20-02       1-21-20     T.S.O. II
20-03       - -         92.12,
                        92.99
20-04       2-4-20      T.S.O. II
20-05       3-17-20     T.S.O. IV
Res. 20-05  3-17-20     T.S.O. II
20-07       2-18-20     T.S.O. I
20-19       7-21-20     30.25
20-23       9-24-20     T.S.O. II
20-24       10-6-20     30.26
Res. 20-13  10-6-20     T.S.O. II
Res. 21-01  1-5-21      T.S.O. II
21-03       1-19-21     T.S.O. II
21-05       2-16-21     T.S.O. II
Res. 21-04  3-21-21     T.S.O. II
Res. 21-05  3-21-21     T.S.O. II
Res. 21-08  6-15-21     T.S.O. II
21-13       7-20-21     30.27
21-19       10-5-21     T.S.O. II
                       
 
