CLINTON, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance O-24-12, passed 9-3-2024
State legislation current through June 26, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND / OR. The word “and” may be read as “or,” and the word “or” may be read
as “and,” if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Summit County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Includes the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire Department
has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire Prevention
Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the municipality.
   IMPRISONED. The same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of Clinton,
Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, LEGAL HOLIDAY means
the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Legislative
Authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section              of the Clinton Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Clinton Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Clinton Code of Ordinances,
reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section               of the Clinton Code of
Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
Statutory reference:
   Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Legislative Authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   POLICIES
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   VILLAGE FEE SCHEDULE AND BOND AND INSURANCE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Time of meetings
   
30.02   Rules
   
30.03   Regulating the use of village buildings
   
30.04   Rental fee for the lower room of Village Hall
   
30.05   Posting of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Composition and term, see R.C. § 731.09
   Contract interest, see R.C. Chapter 102 and § 2921.42
   General powers, see R.C. §§ 715.03 and 731.47
   Hearings against delinquent officers, see R.C. §§ 733.35 et seq.
   Meetings, see R.C. §§ 731.44 and 731.46
   Misconduct, see R.C. §§ 733.72 et seq.
   Powers as to salaries and bonds, see R.C. §§ 731.13 and 731.49 et seq.
   President Pro Tempore, see R.C. §§ 731.10 et seq. and 733.25
   Qualifications, see R.C. §§ 731.12 and 731.44
   Removal or suspension of Fire Chief or firefighters, see R.C. §§ 733.35 et
seq. and 737.72 et seq.
   Removal or suspension of Marshal or police officers, see R.C. § 737.171
   Rules and journal, see R.C. § 731.45
   Vacancy, see R.C. § 731.43
§ 30.01 TIME OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Council shall meet at the Village Hall on the first and third Tuesdays
of every month at 7:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency, which means that the facility designated
for a regularly scheduled Council meeting is unavailable or uninhabitable for
such purpose, the meeting shall be held at the Village Fire Station #1 and
shall begin at 7:15 p.m. so long as a sign identifying the new location for the
meeting, i.e. Fire Station #1, is posted at the original meeting location by 7:
00 p.m. on the same date.
(Prior Code, § 121.01) (Ord. 9-55, passed 12-27-1955; Ord. O-19-2015, passed 6-
18-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Public meetings, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 30.02 RULES.
   The rules governing the procedure of the Village Council shall be as
follows.
   (A)   President Pro Tempore. A President Pro Tempore (hereinafter
“President”) and Vice President shall be elected by a majority of the duly
elected or appointed members. The Vice President shall serve in the role of
President during meetings in the absence of the President.
   (B)   President and Vice President. The President and Vice President shall
be elected at the first meeting in January following the regular village
election and shall serve until December 31 of the current year. In the instance
of a vacancy in the office of President, the Vice President shall automatically
assume the office and President and shall serve in that capacity until the end
of such term. In the instance of a vacancy in the office of Vice President,
Council shall fill such position as provided in division (A) above within one
month of the effective date of the vacancy. Should Council fail to so act the
most senior member of Council shall automatically assume office and serve in
that role until the end of the then current term.
   (C)   Members present. There shall be entered on the minutes, the members
present or absent. In the absence of a quorum at the hour appointed for the
meeting, the member’s present may by a majority vote recess for a period not
exceeding 24 hours.
   (D)   Presiding officer. The presiding officer shall maintain and keep the
rules of Council and shall call the meeting to order, decide all questions of
order, subject to an appeal to Council on the demand of one member. On such an
appeal there shall be no debate, but the member stating the appeal may briefly
state his or her reason for the same.
   (E)   Standing committees. The newly appointed President of Council shall
confer with Council and announce committee and chairperson assignments the
second meeting in January each new year. There shall be three members for each
committee. The first member of each committee named shall be chair. The
standing committees for the terms shall be as follows:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Streets, Sidewalks and Parks;
      (3)   Public Utilities;
      (4)   Laws, Ordinances and Human Resources. The Laws, Ordinances and
Human Resource Committee shall participate, as it elects, in the following
procedures:
         (a)   Review all proposed village laws and amendments to the codified
ordinances and make a recommendation to full Council at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting;
         (b)   Interview, along with the Mayor, all potential employees,
consultants or those with contractual agreements for the village, including,
but not limited to, the Engineer, Solicitor, Secretary, Fiscal Officer, Fire
Chief and/or Street Commissioner. After the committee, in whole or in part,
interviews such person, it shall make a recommendation to full Council at the
next regularly scheduled Council meeting;
         (c)   Hear and independently investigate, as the situation warrants,
any grievance, concern or issue an employee might have and facilitate a
resolution as provided in the village employee handbook, as may be amended (see
§ 34.02(D)); and
         (d)   Review new employee benefit policies or changes to existing
policies and make recommendations to full Council.
      (5)   Community Development; and
      (6)   Safety. There shall be three members for each committee. The first
member of each committee named shall be chair.
   (F)   Council procedure. The business of the Council at all regular meetings
shall be transacted in the following order with no deviation from such order
without a vote of two-thirds of Council. Each meeting agenda shall be created,
meeting specific. Should a presenter be unable to give his or her monthly
report, at the first meeting of the month, that report may be added to the
following meeting’s agenda. An agenda shall only include items that pertain to
that specific meeting, according to the following:
      (1)   Oath of office of newly elected officials (first meeting of new
year);
      (2)   Call to order;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Approval of minutes from previous meeting;
      (5)   Election of President of Council (first meeting of the New Year);
      (6)   Election of Vice President of Council (first meeting of the New
Year);
      (7)   Appointments (first meeting of new year unless stated otherwise):
         (a)   Committees and chairpersons (second meeting of the New Year);
         (b)   Street Commissioner;
         (c)   Solicitor (according to contract); and
         (d)   Records Commission and others as needed.
      (8)   Solicitor monthly report (first meeting of each month);
      (9)   Police monthly report (first meeting of each month);
      (10)   Fire Chief monthly report (first meeting of each month);
      (11)   Street Commissioner monthly report (first meeting of each month);
      (12)   Zoning Inspector written report (given quarterly);
      (13)   Mayor’s report of village affairs (first meeting of year written
report, see R.C. § 733.41);
      (14)   Fiscal Officer’s report (first meeting of each month) written
report;
      (15)   Unfinished business;
      (16)   Mayor’s communications;
      (17)   Council communications and Council committee reports;
      (18)   Citizens comments;
      (19)   Resolutions and ordinances, requiring first, second and third
readings;
      (20)   New business;
      (21)   Council general discussion;
      (22)   Presentation of P.O.s and bills for approval; and
      (23)   Adjournment.
   (G)   Speaking. No member shall be allowed to speak longer than five minutes
at one time without permission, or more than once on the same motion, or until
such time as every member desiring to speak on that motion has had an
opportunity to do so. While the member is speaking, no one shall interrupt him
or her except the presiding officer, who may confine the member to the question
before Council.
   (H)   Committee of the whole. Whenever Council resolves itself into a
Committee of the whole, the President of the Council shall leave the chair. The
Council shall elect a chairperson and the rules of the Council shall be
observed in the Committee of the whole, except that there shall be no
limitations in debate or discussions.
   (I)   Minutes. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of Council to forward by
electronic mail to each member, and shall be received on the Friday before the
next meeting, a detailed report of the proceedings of the meeting.
   (J)   Amendments. It shall be in order to amend an ordinance or resolution
at any time, but if amended after its second reading, it shall be read as the
second reading thereof and laid over for further and final action.
   (K)   Previous questions. When the previous question shall be moved and
seconded, it shall be put in these words, “Shall the main question be not put”
and until decided shall preclude all further amendments of the main question
and further amendments of any preceding amendment thereof and all further
debate thereupon but shall not preclude pending amendments from being put in
their proper order before the main question. Should the previous question be
decided in the negative, it shall not have the effect to prevent further action
or debate upon the main question or amendments thereof at that meeting.
   (L)   Reconsideration. Any member who voted with the prevailing side may
move a reconsideration of any action of the Council; provided that the motion
be made not later than the next regular meeting after such action was taken,
but not more than once shall a matter be reconsidered.
   (M)   Questions and motions. The presiding officer shall state and put all
questions and motions, and shall declare the results of all votes but he or she
may direct, or any member may demand, a division which shall be taken by a roll
call. No vote shall be taken by yeas and nays except such as are required by
the laws of the state, unless a demand for the same be made by a member or by
the presiding officer. Whenever a vote is taken by yeas or nays upon any
question, the Clerk shall call the names of the members in a revolving, random
selection, not to be influenced by the Mayor or any Council member, and every
member present shall vote upon the question.
   (N)   Amendments of rules. These rules may be amended or altered or new
rules adopted by a concurrent vote of the majority of elected members at any
meeting of the Council on the report of a committee to which the subject has
been referred at a previous meeting.
   (O)   Leaving Council chamber. No member shall leave the Council floor while
a meeting is in session, without permission being granted by the presiding
officer. Any member doing so shall be deemed guilty of contempt and may, for
such contempt, be censured by a majority vote of the Council.
   (P)   Profane language. The use of profane or vulgar language is positively
forbidden, either by the members of Council or by citizens or strangers in
attendance.
   (Q)   Rule suspended. These rules or any one of them may be temporarily
suspended by a concurrent vote of four members of the Council.
   (R)   Governing of Council. In the absence of any rule upon any matter of
business not provided for in foregoing rules or the state statutes, as so far
as provisions for the same are therein made, Roberts’ Rules of Order, shall be
the standard of parliamentary usage.
   (S)   Damage claims. No damage claims will be considered more than once in
any 12 months.
   (T)   Definition. Whenever the term ELECTIVE TERM appears in these rules,
for the purpose of these rules, shall mean a term in Council to which one has
been elected commencing on January 1 following the regular village election and
ending on December 31 of the following year.
   (U)   Repeal of former rules. All former rules of order and procedure of the
Village Council shall be and the same are hereby repealed; and these rules
shall take effect and be in force from and after their adoption.
   (V)   Standard meeting times for committees. Each standing committee of the
village (including Planning) shall hold three regular standing meetings each
calendar year. Meetings should be held on Tuesdays before full Council
meetings. No standing committee meeting shall be scheduled on the day of the
first regular Council meeting of the year, the day of the last regular Council
meeting of the year and the first Tuesday in July. Standing meetings can be
cancelled or rescheduled as determined by the chair of such committee. Special
meetings of such committees can be scheduled and posted as needed. Each named
committee shall meet as follows unless otherwise cancelled or rescheduled.
      (1)   Safety.
         (a)   Third Tuesday of January;
         (b)   Third Tuesday of May; and
         (c)   Third Tuesday of September.
      (2)   Finance.
         (a)   First Tuesday of September;
         (b)   First Tuesday of October; and
         (c)   First Tuesday of November.
      (3)   Public Utilities.
         (a)   Third Tuesday of March;
         (b)   Third Tuesday of June; and
         (c)   Third Tuesday of November.
      (4)   Streets, Sidewalks and Parks.
         (a)   First Tuesday of April;
         (b)   First Tuesday of August; and
         (c)   First Tuesday of December.
      (5)   Community Development.
         (a)   Third Tuesday of February;
         (b)   Third Tuesday of April; and
         (c)   Third Tuesday of July.
      (6)   Laws and Ordinances and Human Resources.
         (a)   First Tuesday of February;
         (b)   First Tuesday of May; and
         (c)   Third Tuesday of August.
      (7)   Planning.
         (a)   First Tuesday of March;
         (b)   First Tuesday of June; and
         (c)   Third Tuesday of October.
      (8)   Zoning Board of Appeals. Third Wednesday of each month.
(Prior Code, § 121.02) (Ord. O-17-25, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. O-19-14, passed 6-
18-2019; Ord. O-20-11, passed 6-16-2020; Ord. O-21-04, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 30.03 REGULATING THE USE OF VILLAGE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Without the express permission of Council, the use of any property or
building owned by the village as a full- or part-time residence is prohibited.
   (B)   The fire station, Village Hall or other buildings of the village may
be used for public functions or other uses as expressly permitted by Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 121.03) (Ord. 07-9, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 30.04 RENTAL FEE FOR THE LOWER ROOM OF VILLAGE HALL.
   (A)   Persons or groups desiring to rent the lower room of the Village Hall
will be charged a deposit fee as listed in the village fee schedule established
in §
37.01; one-third of the deposit shall be returned after the rental date unless
there has been damage to the Hall or the Hall has not been cleaned up after
use.
   (B)   The Village Hall shall be available for rental between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. unless Council shall, by resolution, determine that it
is not available for rent at any certain times or dates.
(Prior Code, § 121.04) (Ord. 00-12, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-
20-2018)
§ 30.05 POSTING OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Publication of ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders,
proclamations, notices and reports required by law or ordinances to be
published, shall be published by posting copies thereof in not less than five
of the most public places in the village.
   (B)   It is hereby established that the five most public places in the
village are:
      (1)   Cover Bridge Drive Thru, 7853 Main Street;
      (2)   Clinton Family Haircare, 7881 Main Street;
      (3)   Clinton Post Office, 2773 West Comet Road;
      (4)   True Value Hardware, 2747 Hickory Street; and
      (5)   Clinton Village Town Hall, 7871 Main Street.
   (C)   The village website shall be an additional place of posting of
legislation with an index of adopted legislation to be posted as soon as it is
feasible to do so and that the Fiscal Officer shall post copies of all such
ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations, notices and reports
required by law or ordinance to be published in said places for a period of 15
days immediately after the passage of any ordinance, resolution, statement,
order, proclamation, notice and/or reports required by law or ordinance to be
published; and the Fiscal Officer shall make a certificate as to such posting
and as to the times when and the places where such posting is done, in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 123.01) (Ord. O-16-13, passed 6-21-2016; Ord. O-19-31, passed
12-27-2019)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Generally
   
31.01   Solicitor
   
31.02   Street Commissioner
   
31.03   Zoning Inspector
   
31.04   Village Engineer
   
31.05   Office Administrator
Fiscal Officer
   
31.20   Merger of offices
   
31.21   Authorizing signatures
   
31.22   Fee for withholding child support payments
   
31.23   Electronic payment of utility bills
   
31.24   Estimates prior to purchases
Statutory reference:
   Auditing accounts, see R.C. §§ 733.12 et seq.
   Appropriation and expenditures, see R.C. § 5705.41
   Books and accounts, see R.C. § 733.28
   Election and term, see R.C. § 733.26
   Merger of offices of Clerk and Treasurer, see R.C. § 733.262
   Powers and duties, see R.C. § 733.27
   Uniform Bond Public Securities Law, see R.C. Chapter 133
   Uniform Depository Act, see R.C. Chapter 135
GENERALLY
§ 31.01 SOLICITOR.
   (A)   The Solicitor shall review all village contracts, and shall report to
Council with an opinion to either accept, reject or request further information
regarding said potential contracts.
   (B)   Council shall review the potential contracts at least two weeks prior
to acting to accept or reject said proposed contract.
   (C)   If possible, the agent or person representing the company named in the
potential contract, must appear before Council to answer questions before the
contract can be adopted.
   (D)   No purchase orders or monies shall be issued unless and until the
procedures outlined in this section have been followed.
(Prior Code, § 137.01) (Res. 4-89, passed 2-21-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Legal counsel, see R.C. § 733.48
§ 31.02 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The duties of the Street Commissioner shall include, but not be
limited to, serving as advisor on village matters relating to the streets,
guardrails, lighting, sidewalks, parks, posting of signs, clean-up projects,
repairs, complaints by citizens of the village and to serve as supervisor over
the same, as needed.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner shall also consult with the Street
Superintendent, Council and the Mayor regarding any suggestions which he or she
may have for improving the village, as needed.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner shall also pursue and assist in the obtaining
of grants for projects to be conducted within the village.
(Prior Code, § 143.01) (Ord. 3-90, passed 1-16-1990; Ord. O-22-06, passed 3-15-
2022)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see R.C. § 735.32
   Position established, see R.C. § 735.31
§ 31.03 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Village Zoning Inspector shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
by law and by these codified ordinances. The powers and duties of the Zoning
Inspector are set forth in §
152.035. When there is a conflict between sections, §§
152.030 through
152.035 shall control.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 31.04 VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The Village Engineer shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law
and by these codified ordinances. The powers and duties of the Village Engineer
are set forth in §
152.031. When there is a conflict between sections, §§
152.030 through
152.035 shall control.
(Prior Code, § 157.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 31.05 OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Office Administrator shall have the power and duties prescribed
by these codified ordinances which include but are not limited to acting as
official record keeper for the village, maintain records requests pursuant to
the state statutes and Village Records Commission, as well as all such other
duties as the Mayor or Village Council shall request from time to time that are
in accordance with the official job description accepted by Council. The Office
Administrator shall maintain office hours at Village Hall from 9:00 a.m. to 1:
00 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. Office hours falling on a holiday
or election may be rescheduled within the same pay period as approved by the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 159.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
FISCAL OFFICER
§ 31.20 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   Council hereby adopts R.C. § 733.262(A), wherein the Office of Village
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby combined into one appointed office, to be known as
the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Prior Code, § 135.01)
§ 31.21 AUTHORIZING SIGNATURES.
   In all cases which require the signature of two persons on checks issued by
the village, that in addition to the signature of the Fiscal Officer, the
following persons shall be authorized to sign checks: President of Council and
chairperson of the Finance Committee. If either the President of Council or the
finance chair are not available for a reasonable amount of time, in that
instance, the Mayor is authorized to co-sign checks with the Fiscal Officer.
Should the event arise that President of Council and chairperson of the Finance
Committee shall be one and the same, by a majority vote of then seated Council
members, another Council member may be authorized to sign checks. In the event
the Fiscal Officer is temporarily unavailable to issue checks or the office is
vacant, Council may appoint an assistant Fiscal Officer on a temporary basis.
An accounting firm may also serve in the role of assistant Fiscal Officer, in
this temporary capacity.
(Prior Code, § 135.02) (Ord. 16-30, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 31.22 FEE FOR WITHHOLDING CHILD SUPPORT PAYMENTS.
   The Fiscal Officer shall deduct a fee of $2 or 1% of amount withheld,
whichever is greater, for all payments made on behalf of employees to Ohio
Child Support Payment Central.
(Prior Code, § 135.03) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.23 ELECTRONIC PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to make arrangements
with the electric, gas and phone utility service providers to have payments to
the utilities for monthly service to the village be made by electronic transfer
directly from the village checking account.
(Prior Code, § 135.04) (Ord. 02-07, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 31.24 ESTIMATES PRIOR TO PURCHASES.
   Prior to making any purchases in excess of $750, any employee or agent
making said purchases shall obtain three estimates before making any such
purchase.
(Prior Code, § 135.05) (Ord. 02-27, passed 12-3-2002)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA)
   
32.02   Board of Nuisance Abatement
Fire Department
   
32.15   Emergency medical transportation rates
   
32.16   Assistance outside of village
Planning Commission
   
32.30   Established
   
32.31   Planning Commission powers
Statutory reference:
   Ambulance and emergency medical contracts, see R.C. §§ 3737.32 to 3737.72
   Appointment of Fire Chief and firefighters, see R.C. § 737.22
   Composition of Fire Department, see R.C. §§ 715.05 and 737.21 et seq.
   Gas masks for firefighters; requirements, see R.C. § 3737.32
   General duties of Fire Department, see R.C. § 737.11
   Planning Commission established, see R.C. § 713.01
   Planning Commission; powers and duties, see R.C. §§ 713.02 and 713.06
   Regulations and hours of Fire Department, see R.C. § 737.21
   Removal of Fire Chief and firefighters, see R.C. §§ 733.35 et seq. and
737.22
   Schooling, buildings and equipment, see R.C. §§ 715.05 and 737.23 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA).
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby created and shall have all the powers
and duties prescribed by law and by these codified ordinances. The powers and
duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals are set forth in §
152.034. When there is a conflict between sections, §§
152.030 through
152.035 shall control.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 32.02 BOARD OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   A Village Board of Nuisance Abatement is hereby created and shall have all
the powers and duties prescribed by law and by these codified ordinances. The
powers and duties of the Board of Nuisance Abatement are set forth in §§
150.105 through
150.111. When there is a conflict between sections, §§
150.105 through
150.111 shall control.
(Prior Code, § 161.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION RATES.
   (A)   The Fire Department is hereby authorized and directed to charge the
following sums for each trip, whereby it provides emergency medical
transportation to residents and/or visitors of the village:
      (1)   Basic life support (BLS): $450;
      (2)   Advanced life support (ALS): $650;
      (3)   Advance life support 2 (ALS2): $700; and
      (4)   Loaded mileage charge: $12 per mile.
   (B)   In no event will the fees charged by the village for emergency medical
transportation exceed the Medicare allowable fee schedule for the county.
(Prior Code, § 141.01) (Ord. O-12-1, passed 7-3-2012)
§ 32.16 ASSISTANCE OUTSIDE OF VILLAGE.
   The Fire Department is hereby permitted and authorized to provide fire
protection without a contract to any instrumentality, county or political
subdivision in the county or in any adjoining county; provided that said fire
protection outside of the village is also authorized by the Fire Chief or
acting Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 141.02) (Ord. 4-81, passed 4-8-1981)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission composed of five members, one
of whom shall be the Mayor, one of whom shall be a member of Council to serve
for the remainder of his or her term as member of Council and three of whom
shall be appointed by the Mayor for terms of six years each, except that the
term of one of the members first hereinafter appointed by the Mayor shall be
for four years and the term of one of the members first hereinafter appointed
by the Mayor shall be for two years. All such members shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 147.01) (Ord. 3-1955, passed 3-1-1955)
§ 32.31 PLANNING COMMISSION POWERS.
   The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by
law and by these codified ordinances. The powers and duties of the Planning
Commission are set forth in §
152.033. When there is a conflict between sections, §§
152.030 through
152.035 shall control.
(Prior Code, § 147.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
33.01   Generally
Statutory reference:
   Bond for Court Clerk required, see R.C. § 1901.31(D)
   Municipal Court, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Notification to Director of liquor law convictions, see R.C. § 4301.991
   Record of traffic violations, see R.C. § 4513.37
   Release of Court Clerk’s liability for loss of funds, see R.C. §§ 131.18 et
seq.
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   The provisions of R.C. § 1901.01 established a municipal court in Barberton,
which, pursuant to R.C. § 1901.02 has territorial jurisdiction within the
village. The powers, duties and proceedings of the Court are established by
R.C. Chapter 1901. R.C. § 1901.25 provides that the Municipal Court may provide
by rule how jurors shall be chosen. Jurors’ fees in any criminal case involving
the violation of a village ordinance shall be paid out of the municipal
treasury. The Municipal Court, pursuant to R.C. § 1901.26(A), may establish a
schedule of fees and costs to be taxed in any action or proceeding, whether
civil or criminal. R.C. § 1901.31(F) provides that fines received for violation
of village ordinances shall be paid into the Village Treasury. Rule 13 of the
Rules Governing Procedure in Traffic Cases as promulgated by the Ohio Supreme
Court provides that a court may establish a traffic violations bureau and
specifies certain restrictions as to the designated offenses and schedule of
fines to be accepted as waiver payment in lieu of court appearance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 171)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Introduction
   
34.02   General provisions
   
34.03   Employment and pay procedures
   
34.04   Paydays and payroll deductions
   
34.05   Disciplinary action
   
34.06   Harassment-free workplace
   
34.07   Drug-free workplace
   
34.08   Workplace standards
   
34.09   Other employment
   
34.10   Political activity
   
34.11   Social relations and nepotism
   
34.12   Job safety
   
34.13   Use of village property
   
34.14   Use of communications systems
   
34.15   Village communication systems
   
34.16   Travel and expense reimbursement
   
34.17   Benefits, vacation, leave and absences
   
34.18   Family and medical leave
   
34.19   Medical examinations and disability separations
   
34.20   Building security
Statutory reference:
   All officers must take oath, see Ohio Constitution, Article XV, § 7 and R.C.
§§ 3.22 and 733.68
   Approval of bonds, see R.C. § 733.70
   Blanket bonds, see R.C. § 3.06
   Council to fix salaries and bonds, see R.C. §§ 731.13 and 731.49 et seq.
   Expenses for attendance at conference orconvention, see R.C. § 733.79
   Failure to give bond, see R.C. §§ 3.30 and 731.49 et seq.
   Notice when new bond required, see R.C. §§ 731.50 and 733.69
   Public Employees Retirement System, see R.C. Chapter 145
   Validity of bond, see R.C. §§ 3.34, 733.71 and 3929.14 et seq.
   Welfare, see Ohio Constitution, Article II, § 34
   Workers’ compensation, see Ohio Constitution, Article II, § 35 and R.C.
Chapter 4123
§ 34.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose and coverage.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth personnel policies for
the employees of the village. Many of the rights and responsibilities outlined
in this chapter are based on provisions contained in the state statutes. When a
direct conflict exists between federal and state law and these policies,
federal and state laws prevail.
      (2)   The village cannot foresee all personnel issues and concerns that
may arise. The village reserves the right to revise, modify, amend or delete
any policy, procedure, benefit or regulation when necessary. An amendment
affects only the specific policy it modifies and does not affect the
enforceability of the remainder of this chapter.
      (3)   The village intends for all departments and personnel to adhere to
this chapter in a consistent and uniform manner. Departments may implement a
policy supplement with regard to work rules, policies and procedures which do
not conflict with the provisions of this chapter and which may be necessary due
to the unique nature of the individual office, department or the village, so
long as such supplement is approved by the Mayor.
      (4)   Words contained within this chapter, whether in the masculine or
feminine gender, shall be construed to include both genders. The use of the
masculine or feminine gender is for convenience only and is not to be construed
as discriminatory by reason of sex.
      (5)   Employees are expected to read, understand and comply with the
guidelines set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   In accordance with HB 56-Fair Hiring Act (2015-2016), the village
has the power to hire, compensate, discipline and discharge employees. The
village adheres to the doctrine of employment at will, for all employees,
unless or except as otherwise modified by applicable statute. Employment with
the village is not offered, contracted or promised for any specific length of
time. Employees voluntarily enter into the employment relationship, and are
free to terminate their employment at any time, with or without reason. Just as
employees are free to terminate their employment at any time with or without a
reason, the village reserves the same right, on the same basis, to terminate
their employment.
      (7)   The provisions of this chapter are not to be interpreted as a
promise of continued employment, a guarantee of institutional due process or a
commitment to existing or prevailing compensation. The policies are subject to
change at the discretion of the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Effective date of this chapter. This chapter replaces all prior
effective human resource policies, practices, verbal communications and written
memos that may have been issued on the subjects herein.
(Prior Code, § 149.01) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Ethics in employment. Village employees hold a position of trust and
are expected to maintain the highest of ethical standards. The proper operation
of a democratic government requires that actions of public officials and
employees be impartial, that government decisions and policies be made through
the proper channels of government structure, that public office not be used for
personal gain, and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. R.C. Chapter 102 and R.C. §§ 2921.42 and 2924.43 prohibit public
employees from using their influence to benefit themselves or their family
members. All employees shall abide by the following standards regarding
conflicts that confront public employees. They are not, however, intended to
represent the entire scope of conflicts of interest or ethics issues.
      (1)   No employee shall use his or her official position for personal
gain, or have a financial or other interest, direct or indirect, which is in
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her official duties.
      (2)   No employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
village, nor shall the employee use such information to advance the financial
or other private interest of the employee or others.
      (3)   No employee shall accept any gift of value (Ohio Ethics Commission
Bulletin February 21, 2013), whether in the form of service, loan, item or
promise from any person, firm or corporation which is interested directly or
indirectly in any manner whatsoever in business dealings with the village; nor
shall an employee accept any gift, favor or item of value that may tend to
influence the employee in the discharge of his or her duties, nor shall any
employee grant, in the discharge of his or her duties, any improper favor,
service or item of value.
      (4)   No employee shall represent private interests in any action or
proceeding action against the interest of the village in any matter in which
the village is a party.
      (5)   No employee shall engage in or accept private employment or service
that is incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties or would tend
to impair independent judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties. Neither shall other employment, private or public, interfere
in any way with the employee’s regular, punctual attendance, and faithful
performance of his or her assigned job duties.
      (6)   Any employee offered a gift or favor, and is not sure if its
acceptance is in violation of the code of ethics, should inform his or her
supervisor of the gift, favor or any offer.
      (7)   State law prohibits village employees and officials from having a
financial interest in companies that do business with the village, with minor
exceptions. Employees who have any doubt concerning a possible violation of
these statutes are advised to consult a private attorney.
   (B)   Equal employment opportunity.
      (1)   The village is an equal opportunity employer. It is the village’s
policy to make all employment decisions without regard to a person’s creed,
political affiliation, race, color, religion, national origin, disability, age,
gender, military veteran or disabled veteran and all other categories protected
by federal and state laws. No appointing authority, supervisor or other
employee may discriminate against a person with respect to the terms and
conditions of employment.
      (2)   All village employees shall be treated fairly and equitably based
on the person’s merit, fitness and occupational qualifications.
      (3)   Section 34.06(B) through (D) shall apply with equal force and
effect to the village equal employment opportunity policy.
   (C)   Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (1)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq. prohibits discrimination in hiring, promotions, transfers or any
other benefits or privilege of employment of any qualified individual with a
disability. To be considered a qualified individual, the employee must satisfy
the required skills, experience, education and other job-related requirements
of the position held or desired and must be able to perform the essential
functions of the position, with or without a reasonable accommodation. The
village shall reasonably accommodate a qualified employee with a disability
unless the accommodation would pose an undue hardship to the village. Decisions
as to whether an accommodation is reasonable shall be made on a case-by-case
basis. Employees who believe they are in need of a reasonable accommodation are
responsible for making their supervisor aware of this need.
      (2)   Section 34.06(B) through (D) shall apply with equal force and
effect to this ADA policy.
      (3)   The village shall not accommodate an employee’s use of medical
marijuana as part of an approved treatment for any qualifying conditions as
defined in R.C. § 3796.01.
   (D)   Grievance resolution procedure.
      (1)   The village believes in a friendly and open work environment where
employees can express their opinions, seek information or make suggestions. By
keeping the lines of communication open, everyone will benefit from positive
day-to-day relations that are pleasant, productive and responsive.
      (2)   It is also recognized that problems may arise from time to time. If
an employee has a grievance, concern or issue, the following guidelines have
been established to lead to its resolution.
         (a)   Within five business days of the event prompting or creating the
problem:
            1.   The employee should discuss and attempt to resolve the problem
with his or her immediate supervisor; or
            2.   If the immediate supervisor is a party to or the cause of the
employee’s problem, the employee should file a written complaint with the Laws,
Ordinances and Human Resources Committee.
         (b)   If the employee is unable to resolve the problem with the
supervisor, he or she has five business days from the conclusion of the
discussions with his or her supervisor to file a written complaint with the
Laws, Ordinances and Human Resources Committee.
            1.   The Laws and Ordinances and Human Resources Committee may
investigate the employee’s complaint in the manner, which it believes to be
best for all involved. This investigation may include, but is not limited to:
               a.   Conducting interviews;
               b.   Obtaining written or verbal statements; or
               c.   Conducting hearings.
            2.   Upon conclusion of the investigation, the Laws and Ordinances
and Human Resources Committee will do one of the following:
               a.   Attempt to verbally mediate or resolve the issues
underlying the complaint;
               b.   Issue a recommendation to Village Council to resolve the
issue; or
               c.   Take no action.
         (c)   If the Laws and Ordinances and Human Resources Committee is
unable to resolve the employee’s problem within 30 days; or, the employee is
not satisfied with the decision of the Laws and Ordinances and Human Resources
Committee, the employee has ten business days to appeal the decision to the
Mayor or his or her designee.
         (d)   The appeal will be thoroughly reviewed and discussed with the
appropriate parties involved, and a final decision will be made within 15 days.
         (e)   When an employee fails to file his or her complaint or appeal
within the stated time parameters, the problem will be deemed resolved by the
village.
      (3)   This procedure has been established for the express purpose of
resolving problems. It will be administered so that the employee will not be
penalized or otherwise suffer in any way for using this procedure.
      (4)   Nothing in this policy is intended to deny an employee of any
rights available by law, including the State Civil Rights Commission, Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction.
However, if the employee elects to file a complaint on a matter over which
another administrative body or court has jurisdiction, it is the employee’s
responsibility to meet the criteria for filing with the administrative body or
court.
   (E)   Dispute resolution procedure for firefighters. In accordance with the
contract between the village and City of New Franklin, the following dispute
resolution procedure applies to fire employees: in the event that disputes and
disagreements that arise cannot be settled amicably and have the potential to
create discords for the joint program on such topics as personnel, training
methods, hours, expenditures, supervision, administration of the program or
other such related topics, the following procedures will be initiated.
      (1)   In the event that the staff of either agency come to an impasse and
cannot resolve an issue, it should be bought to the attention of the supervisor
assigned to the station, who will attempt to verbally mediate a resolution to
the dispute.
      (2)   If the supervisor cannot resolve the issue between the parties
involved within three days, the issue shall be brought to the attention of both
fire chiefs. Both fire chiefs shall discuss the issue brought forward,
considering the impact on the municipalities’ personnel and financial costs,
and try to determine a workable solution.
      (3)   If the fire chiefs cannot resolve the issue to the satisfaction of
both parties within one week after being brought to their attention, they shall
bring it to the attention of both mayors.
      (4)   The mayors shall discuss the issue presented and review all facts
available. The mayors may discuss the issue with the fiscal officers of both
municipalities to discuss financial impacts of any decision. After
consideration of the impacts of a resolution, they will present their
recommendation to the fire chiefs. The meeting or discussion and the resolution
should be documented in writing and copies given to all parties.
      (5)   If the impasse is still not resolved after one month of being
brought to the mayors’ attention, the mayors shall present the dispute to their
respective councils for final resolution of the issue.
   (F)   Weather emergencies. The Mayor determines the existence of a weather
emergency and if employees must report to work. Emergency and other essential
employees may be required to report to work even when a weather emergency has
been declared.
(Prior Code, § 149.02) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.03 EMPLOYMENT AND PAY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Employee records.
      (1)   A personnel file shall be established for each employee. Personnel
files are public records as defined by R.C. § 149.43, except as otherwise
protected by state law. Records are maintained in the Finance Office and shall
be released in accordance with the policies of the village and the law.
Pursuant to current law, all medical records shall be maintained in a separate
file, and are not considered to be public records.
      (2)   Each employee shall have the right, upon written request and
reasonable notice, to examine his or her personnel file. Such examination shall
be made on non-work time or at some other mutually agreed upon time.
      (3)   Employees are not permitted to alter, add or remove documents or
other information contained in their personnel files without written
authorization from the Mayor. An employee who alters, adds or removes documents
of information from his or her personnel file, without prior approval, may be
subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
   (B)   Employee classifications.
      (1)   Exempt employee. An employee, whose job classification is exempt,
is exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.,
Wage-Hour Laws. Exempt employees are generally employed to work full-time for
the village and spend sufficient amount of time performing exempt duties in an
executive, administrative, professional or management capacity in accordance
with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
      (2)   Non-exempt employee. A non-exempt employee is generally employed by
the village on an hourly basis and has not been deemed an exempt employee, in
accordance with the Federal Labor Standards Act, Wage-Hour Laws. A non-exempt
employee is entitled to receive, by law, overtime pay in the amount of one and
one-half times the regular hourly rate for all hours worked over 40 hours in a
work week.
      (3)   Full-time employee. One who is employed to work full-time (40
hours) per week or (2,080 hours) per year for the village.
      (4)   Part-time employee. One who is employed to work part-time for the
village. Part-time employees do not earn sick, holiday and/or vacation hours,
or entitled to bereavement pay as per the manual.
      (5)   Part-time firefighter. Firefighter who is employed to work part-
time for the village; part-time firefighters do not earn sick, and/or vacation
hours, or entitled to bereavement pay as per the manual. Part-time
firefighters, who work on a holiday, will earn one and one-half times their
hourly rate for hours worked.
   (C)   Job vacancies. The Mayor shall determine when a vacancy exists, and he
or she shall also determine if a vacancy shall be filled and the method for
filling such vacancy is in accordance with the law.
   (D)   Job assignments. Employees are expected to perform the specific duties
set forth in their job descriptions as well as any other duties assigned by
their supervisor. All employees shall be required to perform any and all
temporarily assigned duties for which they are capable, regardless of their
usual or customary duties or job assignments.
   (E)   Temporary job assignments.
      (1)   A temporary assignment may be used:
         (a)   To fill a vacancy caused by an employee’s absence due to sick
leave or other approved leave of absence;
         (b)   To provide vacation relief scheduling;
         (c)   To meet an emergency situation;
         (d)   To fill an open position, pending appointment;
         (e)   To replace an employee who is temporarily incapacitated from
working; and
         (f)   For any other reason as determined by the Mayor.
      (2)   An employee temporarily assigned to substitute in a different job
classification with a lower rate of pay shall receive the regular rate of pay
as his or her normal assignment.
      (3)   An employee temporarily assigned to a position with a higher rate
of pay shall receive the rate of pay corresponding to the temporary assignment.
   (F)   Probationary period.
      (1)   An employee’s probationary period for a new job or promotion shall
be 180 days for full-time employees and 1,000 hours for part-time employees.
      (2)   This period of time is for the village to assess the employee’s
suitability in the new position, as well as for the employee to determine
whether he or she wishes to continue in the position. During the probationary
period, the employee and the village each have the right to terminate
employment, without advanced notice and without cause. In the case of a
promotion, the employee may be placed back into his or her former position if
the Mayor considers the employee unsuitable for the promoted position.
   (G)   Performance evaluations.
      (1)   All employees, during the probationary period, shall be evaluated
at least once. All employees shall be evaluated at least once each calendar
year, thereafter.
      (2)   Each supervisor shall review and discuss the performance evaluation
with each of his or her employees. The employee shall sign a copy of the
performance evaluation, acknowledging that a review was conducted. The employee
shall receive a copy of the performance evaluation; and if he or she chooses,
may submit a separate written response, which will be attached to the
evaluation and placed in the employee’s personnel file.
   (H)   Regular hours of work.
      (1)   For payroll purposes, the work week begins on Monday at 12:01 a.m.
and ends on Sunday night at midnight.
      (2)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, will establish the specific
scheduled work hours for each department or office, depending on the nature of
the work, work practices and customs. If applicable, hours will be set per R.C.
Chapter 4109, and forms completed accordingly.
      (3)   Employees are to be at their assigned work areas at their scheduled
start times. All village employees, exempt and non-exempt, must keep timesheets
documenting their hours worked, with the exception of elected officials and
contracted employees.
   (I)   Overtime. Overtime may be necessary and required from time to time.
Overtime is established by an employee working over 40 hours per week or a
part-time firefighter worked over 53 hours per week, not including sick time.
All overtime must be approved by the department supervisor. If the supervisor
or Mayor cannot be reached; and if the need for overtime is of utmost
importance for public peace, health, safety, and should take place immediately,
the Fiscal Officer has the right to make that decision.
      (1)   Supervisors shall attempt to distribute overtime as equally as is
practical among qualified employees within those classifications for which
overtime is required.
      (2)   An employee who unreasonably refuses to work a mandatory overtime
assignment may be considered insubordinate and may be disciplined accordingly.
      (3)   Employees who are not exempt from the overtime provisions of the
FLSA shall be compensated at a rate of one and one-half times the employee’s
regular rate of pay for actual overtime worked after an employee has worked 40
hours for the week. Sick time is not considered for the purposes of calculating
overtime.
      (4)   Call out of employees for emergency situations (snow plow, post
storm and the like) shall be paid for a minimum of two hours, counted at the
time they arrive at the village.
      (5)   All employees shall be compensated as outlined in the compensation
ordinance and have a performance evaluation to determine any increase in hourly
rate. All employees shall be paid for authorized time worked. Exception is
relative to call in time as outlined in this chapter.
   (J)   Comp time.
      (1)   At the discretion of an employee’s supervisor or the Mayor, select
employees who work in excess of 40 hours per week will be awarded comp time for
each hour in excess of the 40 hours. Employees can request to be paid their
regular rate of pay for all earned comp time on their employment anniversary
date.
      (2)   An employee can carry over a maximum of 120 hours of comp time per
year. Any and all comp time earned by an employee in excess of 120 hours must
be exchanged on his or her employment anniversary date for his or her regular
rate of pay.
   (K)   Uniform allowance.
      (1)   Full-time employees are entitled to a uniform allowance of $750 per
one calendar year.
      (2)   The village is not responsible for taxes and does reimburse
employees for such. The village will provide a tax exempt form when paying for
work related uniform, including footwear.
      (3)   Receipts and/or expense voucher will be reviewed for reasonableness
for the circumstance, accuracy and completeness of documentation before payment
is made. Receipts and/or expense voucher must be submitted within one month of
purchase date.
      (4)   Part-time firefighters will be issued one uniform.
(Prior Code, § 149.03) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. O-20-02, passed 2-
4-2020)
§ 34.04 PAYDAYS AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Paydays. Village employees are paid according to their pay schedules
and are distributed Thursday, following the end of the pay period. Direct
deposit is the required method.
   (B)   Deductions. Deductions are made from an employee’s paycheck as
required by law, in accordance with the employee benefit plan, or as requested
by the employee. These deductions are itemized on the employee’s pay statement.
The following are explanations of some of the deductions employees may see on
their paychecks.
      (1)   OPERS/OP&F.
         (a)   Membership in the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System
(OPERS) or for full-time police officers, the Ohio Police and Fire Fund (OP&F),
is compulsory upon being employed, with the exception of those employees
specifically exempted under the provisions of R.C. § 145.03. State law requires
that public employees contribute to OPERS or OP&F rather than Social Security,
unless exceptions have been outlined by law.
         (b)   State law sets the rate of deduction for the employee’s
contribution to OPERS and OP&F.
      (2)   Payroll taxes. Federal and state laws, and some local ordinances,
require that taxes be withheld from wages. Employees are required to file a
completed withholding tax certificate (W-4) for federal and state deductions,
upon initial employment and to inform the Fiscal Officer of any exemption
changes whenever they occur.
      (3)   Miscellaneous deductions.
         (a)   Other deductions may include deferred compensation, garnishment,
child support, credit union payments and any other approved deductions.
         (b)   All requests for voluntary payroll deductions must be presented
to the Fiscal Officer for authorization. The village may refuse to make
deductions, not required by law, which are below certain prescribed minimum
amounts, or at irregular intervals, or for any other cause which the village
deems not in the best interest of the village.
(Prior Code, § 149.04) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.05 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall investigate any alleged disciplinary violations, and
all employees are required to cooperate during the investigation.
   (B)   The Mayor has the power to discipline for any violation of any work
rule or any other policy contained in this chapter.
   (C)   If an employee is suspended under this section, the Mayor shall
immediately certify this fact in writing, together with the cause for
suspension and shall serve as true copy of the charges. Within five calendar
days of receiving this notification, the Mayor shall hold a meeting with said
employee and render a judgment. The judgment may be for the employee’s
suspension, reduction in rank/position or removal from the department.
   (D)   Suspensions of employees for more than three days, reduction of rank/
position or removal from the department under this section may be appealed by
the employee within five calendar days of receiving the notification.
   (E)   The Village Council shall hear the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. The person against whom the judgment has been rendered may
appear in person or by counsel at the hearing, examine all witnesses, and
answer all charges against that employee.
   (F)   An employee may waive the opportunity to have a pre-disciplinary
meeting, and failure to attend a scheduled pre-disciplinary meeting will be
considered a waiver of the pre-disciplinary meeting.
   (G)   If, prior to the pre-disciplinary meeting, the Mayor determines that
the employee poses a danger to person(s) or property, or a threat of disrupting
operations, he or she may place the employee on administrative leave with pay
pending the conclusion of the disciplinary procedure.
   (H)   Upon completion of the pre-disciplinary meeting, the Mayor shall
determine the appropriate discipline. The employee will receive written
notification of the disciplinary action in accordance with law.
   (I)   When imposing any reduction or removal of an employee, the Mayor shall
sign a written order of the reduction, or removal.
   (J)   The village adheres to the principles of progressive discipline with
respect to employees. However, certain offenses are serious enough to warrant
immediate reduction or removal without regard to previous reprimands or
discipline.
(Prior Code, § 149.04) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.06 HARASSMENT-FREE WORKPLACE.
   It is the policy of the village to provide its employees with an environment
free of discrimination, including sexual and other unlawful harassment or
bullying. Harassment interferes with the well-being and productivity of
employees and the efficiency of the village, negatively affecting morale,
motivation and job performance. The village is committed to eliminating this
inappropriate behavior and has established the following policy.
   (A)   Harassment/bullying.
      (1)   Harassment is any unwelcome conduct, whether verbal, physical or
visual, that is based upon a person’s sex, color, race, ancestry, religion,
national origin, age, disability, military status or other protected group
status. It also includes, but is not limited to, conduct that demeans or shows
hostility or aversion toward an individual because of his or her status and/or
relatives or associates.
      (2)   Offensive and unwelcome sexual behavior has no place in the work
environment. Unwelcome sexual comments, gestures and jokes are prohibited.
Prohibited conduct also includes, but is not limited to, suggestions, leering,
pats, squeezes or other similar contact, posting of sexual pictures, cartoons,
photos or other graphics in the workplace or on personal clothing. Sexual
harassment is a violation of federal and state laws.
      (3)   Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests
for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly as a term or condition of employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as a basis for employment;
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment;
         (d)   BULLYING is defined as any actual or threatened physical, verbal
or nonverbal abuse occurring either inside or outside of the organization that
can create an internal atmosphere where administration or management believes
the reasonable person in the community would feel intimidated or threatened to
the point they would not be able to function properly; and
         (e)   Both harassment and bullying are destructive to the village.
Therefore, it is everyone’s responsibility to ensure that such disruptive
behavior is addressed when it occurs.
   (B)   Complaints.
      (1)   An employee, who is involved in, observes or experiences harassment
of any kind by a fellow employee, supervisor or other individual otherwise
affiliated with the village, including delivery persons or vendors is
encouraged to inform the alleged harasser of the unwelcome or offensive
conduct. The employee must also immediately report the harassment to his or her
supervisor or the Mayor. The incident will be investigated, which may include
private interviews with the complainant, the alleged harasser and any and all
witnesses. Information will be kept as confidential as possible. All employees
are required to cooperate in any investigation of a harassment complaint. When
the investigation determines that this policy has been violated, prompt
attention and disciplinary action designed to stop the harassment and prevent
its recurrence will be taken. This may include discipline up to and including
discharge of any person whose conduct is in violation of this policy. Any
employee who has knowledge of harassing conduct, and who allows the conduct to
go unaddressed, may also be subjected to disciplinary action.
      (2)   Late reporting of complaints will not, in and of itself, preclude
the village from taking remedial action. However, so that a thorough and
accurate investigation may be conducted, employees are encouraged to report
complaints promptly.
   (C)   Retaliation. Retaliation against an individual for filing a complaint,
reporting harassment or bullying participating in an investigation is in
violation of this policy. Any employee who believes that he or she has been
subjected to retaliatory conduct as a result of actions taken under this policy
must report such conduct to his or her supervisor or the Mayor. Any person
found to have retaliated against an individual for engaging in activity
protected by this policy, will be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including discharge.
   (D)   False complaints. Although legitimate complaints made in good faith
are strongly encouraged, false complaints made in bad faith will not be
tolerated. Failure to prove a violation of this policy will not constitute a
false complaint without further evidence of bad faith. False complaints are
considered a violation of this policy and an employee who intentionally makes a
false complaint will be subject to disciplinary action.
(Prior Code, § 149.06) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.07 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   The village recognizes that the use of illegal or unauthorized
drugs or alcoholic beverages on village premises or while on village business
poses a serious threat to the safety of our employees and compromises the
quality and reliability of its work. Therefore, the village has established the
following prohibitions:
         (a)   Possession, manufacture, dispensation, use or distribution of
illegal or unauthorized drugs or alcoholic beverages on village premises or
while doing business for the village business; or
         (b)   Unlawful manufacture, dis- tribution, dispensation, possession
or use of a controlled substance as defined in Schedule 1-5 in § 202 of the
Controlled Substance Act, being 21 U.S.C. § 812.
      (2)   Violation of these prohibitions may result in disciplinary action
up to and including immediate termination of employment.
      (3)   The village has established a drug-free awareness program and will
communicate this program to employees annually. In addition to receiving a copy
of this policy statement, employees will be informed of the:
         (a)   Danger of alcohol and drug abuse in the workplace;
         (b)   The village’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
         (c)   Availability of any employee assistance program and counseling
programs; and
         (d)   Penalties for drug abuse violations.
      (4)   Employees must notify the village of any criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation no later than five days after such conviction.
Failure to report a conviction or to abide by the terms of this policy
statement may result in disciplinary action including termination of
employment.
      (5)   Employees of other companies, including contractors and personnel
of vendors, determined to be in violation of the village’s drug-free workplace
policy will not be allowed on village property and/or may be denied access to
village property.
   (B)   Testing. All village employees may be subject to drug and/or alcohol
testing under any of the following conditions.
      (1)   All applicants for employment with the village shall submit to a
minimum of a five-panel drug screen and urine test. The applicant must pass
these tests as a condition of being considered for employment. Any applicant
who fails to take the urine drug test or who fails the test will be denied
employment.
      (2)   Whenever the village has reasonable suspicion to believe that the
employee is under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance, the
supervisor or the Mayor or the Fiscal Officer may require such employee to
submit a urine or an alcohol sample for controlled substance testing.
      (3)   Reasonable suspicion may be based on:
         (a)   Specific, contemporaneous, articulate observations such as
direct observation of controlled substances and/or alcohol use, possession or
distribution, or the physical symptoms of being under the influence of
controlled substances and/or alcohol, such as, but not limited to, slurred
speech, the odor of alcoholic beverage or marijuana, dilated pupils, changes in
affect, dynamic mood swings and the like;
         (b)   Reasonable suspicion may also be based on a pattern of abnormal
conduct or erratic or aberrant behavior, or deteriorating work performance
which appears to be related to substance abuse and does not appear to be
attributable to other factors;
         (c)   An employee being charged with unauthorized drug possession, use
or trafficking; and
         (d)   Repeated or flagrant violation of the appointing authority’s
safety or work rules, which are determined by a supervisor to pose a
substantial risk of physical injury or property damage and which appear to be
related to substance abuse or substance use and do not appear to be
attributable to other factors.
      (4)   It may also be based upon an employee’s involvement in a
significant incident, such as an accident, in which his or her health and
safety or the health and safety of others was jeopardized, or in which property
damage occurred.
      (5)   It is the policy that a post-accident testing is required before
returning to work. Testing may also be required before returning to duty or
after a leave of absence, prolonged illness or rehabilitation.
   (C)   Refusal to test. Refusal to submit to drug and alcohol tests as
ordered by the village will be grounds for disciplinary action up to and
including discharge. Other actions that may be considered a refusal to test
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Refusal to sign the form releasing test results to the village;
      (2)   A non-medical delay in providing urine, breath, blood, saliva or
any other specimen;
      (3)   Failure to report directly to the testing facility upon
notification;
      (4)   The use of any product to invalidate the test results;
      (5)   Failure to provide adequate breath for alcohol testing;
      (6)   Engaging in conduct that obstructs the testing procedure; or
      (7)   Failing to remain readily available for a post-accident test.
   (D)   Follow-up testing.
      (1)   Any employee who tested positive for alcohol or controlled
substance while on duty, that was referred to a substance abuse program for
treatment, may be subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol and/or controlled
substance testing consisting of up to six tests in the 12-month period
following the employee’s return to work.
      (2)   If the village extends to an employee, found to be in violation of
this policy, the opportunity to maintain employment, the employee will enter
into a last-chance contract that will specify the treatment terms and extent of
follow-up testing. A return-to-duty test will be administered at the expense of
the village, but all follow-up testing is at the expense of the employee. Any
subsequent violation of the policy during the term of agreement, or deviation
from the conditions stated in the agreement, will be considered cause for
termination.
   (E)   No smoking in village buildings, property, and vehicles. Smoking
(cigarettes, cigar, pipes, vaping, e-cigs, chew and the like) is not permitted
within the Village Hall, Fire Department, Service Garage or in any of its
associated buildings and vehicles.
   (F)   Medical marijuana.
      (1)   The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and non-
prescription medication is not prohibited. However, when taking any
prescription or non-prescription medication which may interfere with the safe
and effective performance of their duties, employees are encouraged to consult
their licensed medical doctor and report such use to the village’s designee.
Certification from a medical doctor that an employee is able to perform the
normal functions of their position may be required before the employee will be
allowed to continue working. This requirement includes medical marijuana that
has been recommended by an authorized medical doctor and dispensed by a
licensed marijuana dispensary in accordance with the requirements of the state
statutes and any related regulations.
      (2)   The village has determined that it shall permit and regulate the
use of medical marijuana by village employees; provided that:
         (a)   All village employees shall be prohibited from using medical
marijuana so as to cause them to be under the influence during the scope and
course of their employment;
         (b)   All village employees shall be prohibited from possessing
medical marijuana and related paraphernalia while on village property or in a
village vehicle; and
         (c)   Village employees that perform safety-sensitive duties shall be
strictly prohibited from using medical marijuana.
      (3)   With regards to the use of medical marijuana, the following apply.
         (a)   Any village employee who is using medical marijuana shall report
such use to the village’s designee, shall provide evidence:
            1.   Of the employee being registered with the state patient
registry;
            2.   Of recommendation from a medical doctor who has a certificate
to recommend its use; and
            3.   The medical marijuana was obtained from a licensed marijuana
dispensary.
         (b)   An employee who has a recommendation for medical marijuana who
tests positive for marijuana shall be treated as using an appropriately
prescribed drug when he or she has complied with the requirements of division
(A) above and have used the marijuana in compliance with the physician’s
recommendations.
      (4)   The use of medical marijuana is prohibited as follows:
         (a)   By employees who are required to hold commercial driver’s
licenses in the course of their employment;
         (b)   By employees who are required and/or permitted to carry firearms
in the course of their employment;
         (c)   By an employee so as to cause them to be under the influence of
medical marijuana during the course and scope of their employment; and
         (d)   By an employee during the scope and course of their employment.
      (5)   All village employees are prohibited from possessing medical
marijuana and related paraphernalia while on village property or in a village
vehicle.
      (6)   An employee that tests positive for a medical marijuana product
during post-injury drug testing shall not be eligible for workers’ compensation
even though the employee has a recommendation for that use from a physician who
is properly certified to make the recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 149.07) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.08 WORKPLACE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Employee conduct.
      (1)   Employees are entitled to work in a safe, well-organized and
harassment-free environment and to be treated with respect.
      (2)   To maintain such a workplace, it is necessary that everyone control
his or her own behavior. Common sense is frequently the best guide to what is
proper behavior, but some guidelines will help employees to understand how
common-sense principles of social behavior are applied in the workplace.
      (3)   The following are some general guidelines of what is expected of
employees and what prohibited behavior is. These guidelines are not exhaustive
and may be revised from time to time.
      (4)   All employees of the village are expected to:
         (a)   Conduct the affairs of the village in a manner that best serves
the constituency;
         (b)   Give a full day’s work in a job to which they are assigned;
         (c)   Maintain a professional demeanor, avoid any offensive or abusive
language or conduct, and respect the rights of other employees;
         (d)   Be appropriately dressed and groomed for the job (check with
your supervisor if you have any questions regarding any particular clothing);
         (e)   Wear and use designated safety articles where required, and
follow all safety rules at all times;
         (f)   Take care of village property, tools and/or equipment;
         (g)   Not interfere with the work performance of other employees;
         (h)   Maintain confidentiality, and do not use the position to obtain
confidential information that is not necessary to an employee’s particular job;
         (i)   Not engage in horseplay, fighting or the agitation of others;
and
         (j)   Control his or her temper and not yell in anger or in defiance
of instructions or directives.
   (B)   Zero tolerance for violence.
      (1)   The village is committed to providing a work environment that is
safe, secure and free of harassment, threats, intimidation and violence.
Accordingly, the village enforces a zero-tolerance policy for workplace
violence. Threats or acts of physical violence, including intimidation,
harassment and/or coercion which involve or affect village employees, or which
occur on village property, or while conducting business on behalf of the
village, regardless of the location, will not be tolerated.
      (2)   An employee should immediately notify his or her supervisor if he
or she witnesses any warning sign or risk factor that could lead to violence.
      (3)   Village employees, who are found to have committed acts of
workplace violence, will be disciplined, up to and including discharge, for the
first offense, and may be criminally prosecuted.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. Examples of prohibited acts of workplace violence
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Hitting, poking or shoving an individual;
      (2)   Threatening to harm an individual or an individual’s family,
friends, associates or property;
      (3)   The intentional or attempting to coerce an employee to do wrongful
acts, as defined by applicable law, administrative rule, policy or work rule;
      (4)   Making harassing or threatening telephone calls or sending
harassing or threatening letters or other forms of written or electronic
communications, including e-mail;
      (5)   Intimidating or attempting to coerce an employee to do wrongful
acts, as defined by applicable law, administrative rule, policy or work rule;
      (6)   The willful, malicious and repeated following of another person,
also known as stalking, and/or making threats with the intent to place another
person in fear for his or her safety; and
      (7)   Unauthorized possession or inappropriate use of firearms, weapons
or any dangerous devices on village property.
(Prior Code, § 149.08) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.09 OTHER EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employment conflicts. Under no circumstances shall an employee have
another employment which conflicts with the employee’s specific job
description. In addition, employees shall not become indebted to a second
employer whose interest might be in conflict with those of the village office
in which they work. Should the village determine that an employee’s outside
employment is adversely affecting the employee’s job performance, the Mayor may
recommend that the employee refrain from such employment or resign from the
village. Any violation of this section may result in discipline up to and
including discharge.
   (B)   Charity work.
      (1)   With the permission of the Mayor, village employees may discretely,
and on their own time, pursue charitable or community activity sales so long as
such activities are totally minor (for example, charitable candy sales during
lunch time), asking only voluntary participation or contribution, and are
carried out in a discreet manner. The village may, at its absolute and sole
discretion, prohibit or terminate any such activities for any reason.
      (2)   Distributing literature during work time by the employee making the
distribution to employees to whom it is being distributed is prohibited. The
term work time does not include an employee’s authorized lunch or break or
other times when the employee is not required to be working.
      (3)   It is not permissible to attach literature to vehicles on village
property, or to distribute literature in any way that causes litter on village
property.
(Prior Code, § 149.09) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019) Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.10 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   Village employees, during the village work day, and while acting as a
representative of the village, while on village property, or while inside
village buildings or vehicles, shall not engage in political activities, such
as campaigning, wearing campaign buttons or the like, displaying campaign
material or engaging orally in campaign promotion, solicitation or similar
activities.
(Prior Code, § 149.10) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.11 SOCIAL RELATIONS AND NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Dating. A romantic relationship between any two employees is
prohibited when either employee’s conduct interferes with the workplace,
regardless of whether the employees are in different departments.
   (B)   Nepotism.
      (1)   Relative includes a spouse, child, grandchild, parent, grandparent,
grandparent-in-law, sibling, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, stepparent, stepchild, stepsibling and any legal guardian who
stands in place of a parent to the employee.
      (2)   The village may receive employment applications from a relative of
a current employee. The following situations shall prevent the village from
hiring a relative of a current employee:
         (a)   If one relative would supervise or have disciplinary authority
over another;
         (b)   If one relative would audit the work of another; or
         (c)   If a conflict of interest exists between the relative and the
employee of the relative.
   (C)   Relative in chain of command.
      (1)   An employee is not permitted to work in a position where his or her
supervisor or any person above him or her in his or her established chain of
organizational command is a relative.
      (2)   If such a situation is created through promotion, transfer or
marriage, one of the affected employees must be transferred or discharged.
   (D)   Married in course of employment. If two employees marry, they will be
subject to the same rules listed above as other relatives unless state law or
judicial decisions dictate otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 149.11) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.12 JOB SAFETY.
   (A)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Every supervisor is responsible for providing safe working
conditions, tools, equipment and work methods for employees.
      (2)   It is the policy of the village to comply with all applicable
federal, state and local health and safety regulations, and to provide a work
environment as free from recognized hazards as feasible.
      (3)   Employees are expected to comply with all safety and health
requirements and supervisor instructions whether established by the village or
federal or state law.
      (4)   Employees have a duty to use the safety equipment provided by the
village and to follow all safety rules and safe working methods recommended or
required. Violation of safety rules or failure to comply with safety rules will
lead to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
      (5)   Employees are responsible for reporting any safety concerns and/or
unsafe working conditions to their supervisor immediately upon discovery.
      (6)   Employees are expected to follow any safety dress requirements as
determined by the village.
   (B)   Workers’ compensation.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village to conduct all of its operations
and activities in a manner that ensures a healthy and safe work environment for
all employees. The prevention of occupational injuries and illnesses is of such
consequence that we will give health and safety precedence over operating
productivity whenever necessary.
      (2)   All employees, management and labor must be dedicated to reducing
the risk of injury and illness for our safety policy to succeed.
      (3)   The village will hold supervisors accountable for the health and
safety of employees under their supervision. The village will provide
supervisors with the training, assistance and support needed for them to
fulfill this responsibility. Supervisors are also responsible to ensure the
machinery and equipment are safe, and that employees follow established safe
work practices and procedures.
      (4)   Employees must protect their own health and safety and that of
others by following safety rules, and by using our safe work practices and
procedures.
      (5)   The village is committed to returning injured workers to productive
work as soon as possible by providing a transitional work program.
      (6)   It is in the best interest of everyone to consider health and
safety in every activity. All employees must demonstrate a commitment to health
and safety.
      (7)   State law provides that village employees are eligible for workers’
compensation for injuries arising out of or in, the course of employment.
Guidelines for filing a claim with State Bureau of Workers’ Compensation (BWC)
as set forth below.
      (8)   Should an employee be injured during the course of employment with
the village, the employee shall seek treatment immediately, if required.
Employees shall notify their supervisor immediately regardless of the
seriousness of the injury and whether or not treatment is required or sought.
The employee shall immediately notify the Mayor’s Office and the Fiscal Officer
and/or designee. The supervisor will complete a BWC first report of an injury,
occupational disease or death form (FROI) with the Fiscal Officer. FROI forms
are normally available at doctor’s offices, hospital emergency rooms and from
the Fiscal Officer’s Office. The completed FROI will be forwarded to the Fiscal
Officer within 24 hours. In all cases, the employee and supervisor must
complete the village accident/incident form and forward it to the Fiscal
Officer.
      (9)   The Fiscal Officer must be advised and continually be updated if an
employee continues to be absent due to a work-related injury. Employees are
responsible for informing the supervisor and the Fiscal Officer of their
expected date of return, or the date of their next medical evaluation.
      (10)   Copies of all documents concerning injured parties from
physicians, hospital or the state must be immediately forwarded to the Fiscal
Officer.
      (11)   Employees who are injured in the course and scope of employment
and who must leave work before completing their work period shall receive the
regular rate of pay for the balance of the scheduled work day.
      (12)   The village retains the right to require an employee who is
receiving workers’ compensation to report for work and perform such duties as
can be safely accomplished with the consent of an appropriate physician. An
employee who refuses light duty assignment may lose the right to workers’
compensation benefits and may be disciplined up to and including discharge.
      (13)   When an injured employee has returned to work from a work-related
injury, the Mayor has the right to request a fitness for duty examination, if
necessary. This examination may be requested immediately or after the returned
worker has been on the job for a while. The examination is for the health and
safety of the employee, as well as other employees of the village. (See § 35.19
for details.)
      (14)   An employee who tests positive for a medical marijuana product
during post-injury drug testing shall not be eligible for workers’ compensation
even though the employee has a recommendation for that use from a physician who
is properly certified to make the recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 149.12) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.13 USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   The village’s policy is to provide its employees with the materials
and equipment necessary to promote an efficient and productive workplace. Use
of village-owned property by employees shall be limited to uses that
effectively and appropriately utilize the resources provided for the
furtherance of village business.
      (2)   Any unauthorized or improper use of village property by an employee
may be considered theft and may result in disciplinary measures. In addition,
the village may refer instances of employee theft or destruction of property or
other act in violation of applicable local, state or federal law to the Police
Department for investigation or to the prosecutor for prosecution.
      (3)   The following guidelines apply to village property.
         (a)   The village owns most of the furniture, fixtures, supplies,
lockers, file cabinets, computer equipment, vehicles, tools and equipment used
and/or located in village offices or the village buildings. Employees are
permitted to use village property only to promote the efficient conduct of
village business.
         (b)   The village reserves the right to replace, repair or remove its
property, as it deems necessary.
         (c)   The village may conduct searches of any portion of the village-
owned property including, but not limited to, desks, file cabinets, offices,
lockers, communications systems and computer systems. Employees shall have no
expectation of privacy in relation to their use of the village property.
         (d)   Employees shall not use village property for personal or private
reasons unless otherwise allowed by the village policy.
      (4)   Upon separation from employment, employees shall remove any
furniture, objects of art, equipment or tools they have loaned to the village
and they shall return all village property, including, but not limited to,
keys, pagers, cellular telephones, ID badges, tools and uniforms prior to
receiving their final paycheck.
   (B)   Department equipment.
      (1)   Employees are responsible for all keys and other equipment assigned
to them. Employees may be required to pay for lost equipment.
      (2)   Lost village property must be reported immediately to the Mayor.
      (3)   The use of village equipment, machines and property for purposes
other than village business is strictly prohibited unless otherwise allowed by
village policy. This includes, but is not limited to, the use of computers,
typewriters, duplication or copying machines, bulletin boards, facsimile
machines and telephones.
      (4)   If village equipment and/or supplies are removed from the village
offices, the individual responsible for their return (or the supervisor) must
make note of when they were removed, when they will be returned and the
individual responsible for their return.
      (5)   Employees are required to maintain the security of their work area
by locking drawers and files. Employees are expected to secure confidential
files in the appropriate areas, put supplies and equipment away, lock doors on
village vehicles and set security systems on a routine basis.
   (C)   Village vehicles.
      (1)   Any village employee who is required to operate a village-owned
motor vehicle, as defined by state law, in the course of employment must be at
least 18 years of age, possess a current valid driver’s license that covers the
type of vehicle to be operated, follow all applicable motor vehicle laws and
regulations, and shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
         (a)   Periodic (at least annually) record checks from the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles;
         (b)   Use of seat belts by all drivers and passengers;
         (c)   Immediately notify his or her supervisor of any moving
violations, arrests, convictions or the loss, suspension or revocation of his
or her driver’s license; and
         (d)   Reassignment or other appropriate personnel action, including
layoff, suspension or termination of employment in the event of a license
revocation, suspension or traffic offense conviction while driving on village
time.
      (2)   Employees shall use assigned village vehicles only for authorized
purposes. No passengers will be permitted in village vehicles unless required
for village business. Reimbursement for necessary emergency road service and
repairs, parking and highway-related tolls require appropriate receipts for
reimbursement. Employees will be responsible for promptly paying any parking
tickets or fines related to the operation of a village vehicle.
      (3)   Employees who use village vehicles are required to report any
unsafe conditions and be responsible for submitting their vehicle to the
village for all regularly scheduled and/or necessary maintenance.
      (4)   Village employees involved in an accident while driving or riding
in a village vehicle shall report the accident to their supervisor immediately
and shall complete an incident report. The supervisor shall forward this report
to the Fiscal Officer, within 24 hours, barring extraordinary circumstances.
      (5)   Employees whose job descriptions require that they possess a valid
commercial driver’s license (CDL) are governed by state requirements concerning
CDL license-holders. The CDL requirements are in addition to, not in lieu of,
the above-listed requirements for the use of village vehicles.
      (6)   The village service garage is a place where the service employees
provide maintenance and repair to the village-owned vehicles. Private vehicles
are not permitted in the service garage at any time. Violation of this may
result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
   (D)   Credit card/purchase cards.
      (1)   The purpose of this credit card policy is to establish the
procedure and protocol for the use of the village business credit cards.
      (2)   The Fiscal Officer is responsible for the acquisition and
management of all credit card accounts and presentation instruments related to
those accounts, including cards and checks. The responsibilities of the Fiscal
Officer include, but are not limited to, the following: obtaining credit cards
from the issuer; overseeing the issuance and re-issuance of credit cards to the
authorized officers or employees; monitoring the usage of credit cards by
authorized officers or employees; assuring that funds to pay expenses incurred
by use of a credit card are available within the village-approved budget; and
generally overseeing compliance with this policy.
      (3)   Credit cards are provided to the Mayor, village administration,
Fire Chief and Street Superintendent for the primary purpose of conducting
village business. Each individual shall be solely responsible for any card
issued to them and for the safekeeping of said card.
      (4)   Credit limit on village credit cards is set at $10,000, however, no
purchase shall be made on a credit card in excess of the sum of $3,000 without
Council approval prior to purchase.
      (5)   The credit cards issued to the Mayor and the village administration
shall be solely used for the purchasing of supplies or services needed for the
Village Hall. The credit card issued to the Fire Chief shall solely be used for
purchasing of supplies or services needed for the Fire Department. The credit
card issued to the Street Commissioner shall be solely used for purchasing of
supplies or services needed for Street Department.
      (6)   All expenditures in connection with the use of a credit card shall
be supported by original itemized receipts. Those receipts shall be provided to
the Fiscal Officer within 48 hours of purchase. The individual authorized to
use the card shall be personally liable for the amount of those purchases not
supported by an itemized receipt.
      (7)   Each person issued a credit card for village business shall sign a
copy of an acknowledgment identifying the terms of the credit card use policy
as established by the Village Council.
      (8)   The Fiscal Officer will present to the Legislative Authority credit
card transaction detail from the previous month, where after the presiding
officer of the Legislative Authority will sign an attestation stating a review
has taken place.
      (9)   Credit cards will be issued to those identified in §
34.03 upon their signed acknowledgement of this policy by the Compliance
Officer. The Compliance Officer will maintain a record of all cards issued. An
employee who is authorized to use a credit card and who suspects the loss,
theft, fraud or possibility of unauthorized use of the credit card shall notify
the Compliance Officer immediately after the suspected loss, theft, fraud or
possibility of unauthorized use becomes known to the employee. Upon receipt of
such notice, the Compliance Officer shall immediately take any action that the
Fiscal Officer considers prudent and necessary to prevent or arrest any
possible or additional unauthorized use of the credit card, including, but not
limited to, the following: notifying the issuer and/or law enforcement, as
appropriate; canceling a card, as appropriate; and notifying the Council of any
action taken.
      (10)   Credit cards shall not be used as follows: for personal purposes
or expenses; to obtain cash advances, cash withdrawals or to obtain cash back
from a transaction; by any person other than the specifically-authorized
officer or employee to whom the card was issued; for any expense not approved
by this Council or any unauthorized expense; for any purpose; or to pay for any
expense prohibited by federal or state law. Any violation of this section shall
qualify as misuse of a credit card account and shall be cause for immediate
revocation of authorization to use a credit card and may result in disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
(Prior Code, § 149.13) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. O-20-16, passed 8-
18-2020; Ord. O-21-28, passed 11-16-2021; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 34.14 USE OF COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
   The village’s policy is to provide or contract for communication services
and for the equipment necessary to promote the efficient conduct of village
business. Communication equipment and services include, but are not limited to,
mail, electronic mail (e-mail), courier services, facsimiles, telephone
systems, personal computers, computer networks, on-line services, internet
systems, computer files, video equipment, tape recorders and recordings,
pagers, cellular phones and bulletin boards.
   (A)   All village communication services and equipment, including the
messages transmitted or stored by village communication services, are the sole
property of the village.
   (B)   The supervisor is responsible for instructing employees in the proper
use of communication services and equipment used by the village for both
internal and external business-related communications.
   (C)   The village may access and monitor employee communications and files
as it deems appropriate. Employees shall have no expectation of privacy in
relation to their use of any of the village’s communications equipment.
   (D)   Employees shall not use the village communication services and
equipment for personal purposes unless otherwise allowed by village policy. All
outgoing messages, whether by mail, facsimile, e-mail, internet transmission or
any other means may be public records and must be accurate, appropriate, and
work-related.
   (E)   Employees may not use the village address for receiving personal mail
or use village stationery or postage for sending personal mail. Only the
village may issue personalized stationery and business cards.
   (F)   No employee shall tamper with, alter or sabotage any village computer
hardware or the information maintained on it.
   (G)   The village maintains various communication systems to communicate
village-related information to employees and to disseminate or post notices
required by law. These communication systems (including bulletin boards,
electronic mail, voice mail, telephones, facsimile machines and personal
computers) are for business use only and may not be used for employee
solicitation or distribution of literature.
   (H)   Only persons authorized by the Mayor, or his or her designee, may
place notices on, or take down, material from bulletin boards.
   (I)   The unauthorized use of the communication systems or the distribution
or posting of notices, or other materials on any village property is
prohibited. An employee may personalize his or her immediate workspace with a
modest display of personal photographs that do not interfere with the workplace
and subject to approval of the Mayor. Employees who violate this policy are
subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
(Prior Code, § 149.14) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.15 VILLAGE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   The village provides electronic mail and internet access to
employees for their use in performing work on behalf of the village. This
policy statement sets forth the village’s policy on proper use of this
electronic mail system (e-mail) and on use of the village’s computer system to
gain access to the internet.
      (2)   The village requires all employees to use its electronic mail in
the performance of his or her duties on behalf of the village; no exceptions.
Failure to do so can and will result in disciplinary actions, up to and
including potential termination of employment.
      (3)   The village reserves the right to change these policies at any
time, with or without prior notice.
   (B)   Property rights. The village’s computers and network facilities are
made available to village employees to assist them with village business.
Although some of this property is intangible, the village’s computing and
network facilities, including all related software, are the property of the
village. Any copying of software owned by the village is illegal without the
prior written consent of the village.
   (C)   Electronic mail. It is the policy of the village that the e-mail
system is to be used solely for the benefit of the village. Use of the e-mail
system in any way that violates other village policies is prohibited. Such use
may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
      (1)   How e-mail works. All e-mail messages are stored in the village’s
database. There is no limit on the number of messages that a user can have. All
unread messages are indexed in the user’s in-box. The user has the option of
leaving read messages indexed in his or her in-box or organizing them into
folders. Retaining a large number of messages can significantly slow down the
operation of the village’s e-mail system.
      (2)   Informal uses. Because the e-mail often feels like a less formal
method of communication than written memoranda, and because it is not a face-
to-face mode of communication, users may be less cautious and more candid in
the content of their messages. Users should always be mindful that the e-mail
system is not a private mode of communication.
      (3)   Ownership of e-mail system. The e-mail system is the village’s
property and should be used for job-related purposes only. Any communication
transmitted by, received from or stored in the village’s e-mail system is the
property of the village. To the extent an employee uses the village’s e-mail
system in violation of such policy for personal purposes, that use is at the
employee’s own risk and the employee waives any right of confidentiality as to
any and all such communications.
      (4)   Right to monitor. By using the village’s e-mail system, village
employees acknowledge and consent to monitoring of e-mail and any other social
media systems.
      (5)   Disclosure. By using the village’s e-mail system, village employees
acknowledge and consent to access by the Mayor, or his or her designee, of all
e-mail messages to and from the user and to the disclosure of the content of
all e-mail messages when the Mayor, or his or her designee, determines such
disclosure to be necessary or appropriate.
      (6)   File transfers. It is not uncommon and is generally permissible to
append to an e-mail message a separate file, such as a word processing or
spreadsheet file. However, for virus-protection reasons, no e-mail should be
sent or received which has an executable file (such as, AOL4FREE.exe). Any user
of the e-mail system who receives an executable file is prohibited from
attempting to execute that file without the express permission of the Mayor or
his or her designee.
      (7)   Copyright issues. The ability to attach a document to an e-mail
message greatly increases the risk of copyright infringement. A user can be
liable for the unauthorized copying and distribution of copyrighted material
through the e-mail system. Accordingly, you should not copy and distribute
through the e-mail system any copyrighted material (such as software, database
files, documentation, articles, graphic files and down-loaded information)
unless you have confirmed in advance from appropriate sources that the village
has the right to copy or distribute such material.
      (8)   Social media. The village understands employees may maintain or
contribute to personal blogs, message boards, conversation pages and other
forms of social media (such as, Facebook and Twitter) outside their job
function and may periodically post information about their job or village
activities on these outlets. The village has no desire to control its
employees’ actions outside of work. It is important that the employee practice
caution and use discretion when posting any content on any form of social media
that could affect the village’s operations and/or reputation.
      (9)   Prohibited uses. Conduct that is expressly prohibited includes the
following:
         (a)   Distributing material that is discriminatory, harassing,
defamatory, embarrassing, offensive pornographic or offensive to others;
         (b)   Copying village-owned or licensed software or data to another
software of data to another computer for personal use without prior written
approval;
         (c)   Attempting to modify village- owned or licensed software of data
without prior approval of the Mayor;
         (d)   Attempting to damage or disrupt the operation of computing
equipment, data communications equipment of data communications lines;
         (e)   Using the village’s computers or network facilities for purposes
other than those which legitimately further the business of the village;
         (f)   Allowing access to the village’s computer or network facilities
by unauthorized persons;
         (g)   Copying another user’s software without the permission of the
owner;
         (h)   Knowingly accepting or using software which has been obtained by
illegal means;
         (i)   Abusing or harassing another user through electronic means;
         (j)   Using the village’s computer network facilities in the
commission of a crime; and
         (k)   Gaining unauthorized access to non-public computing network
facilities and information resources.
      (10)   Discipline. Employees who violate the village’s e-mail policy may
be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
      (11)   Confidentiality. All e-mail commun- ication on the village’s
system must be regarded as public documents subject to disclosure upon request
by members of the public. Employees should keep this in mind with all e-mail
usage.
   (D)   Management of electronic mail. The village provides the e-mail system
to facilitate village-related business. Employees must use their village e-mail
to conduct all village related business. Employees should not assume any
privacy whatsoever in any communication they send or receive via their village
e-mail. Please keep in mind that most village-related business falls under
disclosure via public records regulations. Thus, when using e-mail:
      (1)   Observe the following general guideline: “Don’t write anything in
e-mail and/or social media that you would not want published on the front page
of the newspaper;”
      (2)   Use the subject line frequently, in order to help a recipient
categorize and prioritize your e-mail. An e-mail without a subject line often
receives a low priority;
      (3)   Avoid sending jokes or other comments that may be interpreted as
being discriminatory or offensive;
      (4)   Avoid disclosing personal information;
      (5)   Keep the list of recipients to a minimum;
      (6)   Determine the level of formality to be placed in the message;
      (7)   Avoid emotion in messages;
      (8)   Assume any message sent will be permanent;
      (9)   Do not ignore messages received, whether inadvertently or not;
      (10)   Destroy all messages pursuant to the village’s e-mail policy which
is contained in the village’s codified ordinances and incorporated herein as
amended;
      (11)   Consider alternative communication;
      (12)   The village strongly discourages the storage of large numbers of
e-mail messages that are not public records. The retention of multiple messages
fills up large amounts of storage space on the network server and can slow down
performance;
      (13)   (a)   If a message is not a public record and does not require
specific action or response, the employee should delete it promptly after
reading it. If the content of the message needs to be saved for longer than a
week, the employee should place it in a folder, archive it to a local hard disk
or diskette, print out the message, save the hard copy in the appropriate file
and delete the e-mail message. Each employee should review his or her messages
every week and delete those that are not needed.
         (b)   E-mails that are public records are those that describe the
operations, functions, policies and decisions of the village. For example, an
e-mail detailing the agenda for a village meeting would be a public record; an
e-mail from one co-worker to another asking about what they want for lunch
would not be a public record;
      (14)   The Mayor or his or her designee may from time to time create
automatic deletion periods for various classes of e-mail; and
      (15)   Any comments and actions on your personal site are visible to the
entire social networking community and not treated as a private matter. The
courts have permitted employers’ use of employee posted information as evidence
in defense of allegations of wrongful termination and the like.
   (E)   Telephone and voice mail. Employees may make and receive a limited
number of personal calls during work hours (personal calls are those determined
not to be necessary in the interest of the village) from the village telephones
when those calls do not incur additional charges to the village. When
necessary, employees are permitted to make brief personal calls using the
following guidelines:
      (1)   The calls should not adversely affect the performance of official
duties;
      (2)   They must be of a reasonable duration and frequency;
      (3)   Personal calls are not to tie up the limited phone lines within the
village and thus preventing calls pertaining to village business from getting
through;
      (4)   Absolutely no calls are to be made to 900 numbers;
      (5)   Supervisors will determine whether brief personal telephone calls
are of reasonable length, and in the interest of the village, based on
employees’ work schedule, co-worker needs, office work demands, length of work
day and the like. Personal calls, in excess of three times a day and longer
than five minutes each, are normally to be considered unreasonable; and
      (6)   The voice mail system is maintained for the benefit of the village
and the village may monitor it at any time without prior notice. The system is
a village asset and all entries are village property. Improper use of the voice
mail system or its use for personal or non-business purpose may lead to
disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
   (F)   Computer hardware/software and data.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of each employee to ensure that software
and hardware computer resources owned, leased by or licensed to the village are
properly secured and controlled.
      (2)   No employee may misuse his or her authority over any such computer
resources.
      (3)   No employee may reproduce or make personal use of proprietary
software purchased by and licensed to the village.
      (4)   No employee may use the village’s computer resources for private
purpose.
      (5)   No software, data or information may be removed from the village
premises in the form of tape, diskette, print or other media, unless the
removal is related to village business.
      (6)   All computer software, data and information relating to the conduct
and operation of the village are considered proprietary information belonging
to the village and cannot be appropriated altered, sublicensed, copied or used
for other than the village business and other than for public record requests.
No employee shall disclose such village information to others without
permission from the Mayor or his or her designee or the Fiscal Officer.
      (7)   Personal system passwords are regarded as confidential and may not
be given to others. Any suspected loss or misuse of passwords is to be reported
immediately to the Mayor or the appropriate system administrator.
   (G)   Passwords. Given the importance of the village’s computer network, it
is imperative that all employees strictly adhere to password policies.
Consequently, it is a violation of village policy to do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow another individual to use your computer password to gain
access to the computer network;
      (2)   Use another employee’s password to gain access to the village’s
computer network; or
      (3)   Use another individual’s password or other computer identity to
gain access to any other computer network under false pretenses.
   (H)   Licensed software/copyrighted material.
      (1)   No employee shall install, upload or download any software on
village equipment without the consent of the Mayor or the Fiscal Officer.
      (2)   Copyrighted and trademarked materials that do not belong to the
village must not be placed on any system. Employees may not copy, retrieve,
modify or forward copyrighted and trademarked materials except with permission.
All copyright laws must be observed.
   (I)   Cellular phones.
      (1)   Personal cell phones.
         (a)   While at work, employees are expected to exercise the same
discretion in using personal cell phones as is expected for the use of village
phones. Excessive personal calls during the work day, regardless of the phone
used, can interfere with an employee’s productivity and be distracting to
others. The village has established a reasonable standard that limits personal
calls during work. Employees are asked to make any personal calls on non-work
time when possible and to ensure that friends and family members are aware of
the village policy. Flexibility will be accepted in circumstances demanding
immediate attention.
         (b)   The village will not be liable for the loss or damage to
personal cellular phones brought into the workplace.
         (c)   The ringing of personal cell phones in the work place is
disturbing and should be kept on low or vibrate, and used with discretion.
      (2)   Personal use of the village’s cellular phones.
         (a)   The village may issue a business cellular phone to an employee
for work-related communications. Such phones are to be used for business
reasons only. Phone logs may be audited regularly to ensure no unauthorized use
has occurred.
         (b)   If any employee experiences a severe personal emergency that
results in the need to use the village cellular phone, he or she is required to
report the use to the supervisor or designee within 48 hours. The employee will
be asked to sign a form specifying the number of calls and the reason for the
call and will directly reimburse the village when the bill is received. If
there is no charge for the call billed, i.e., the set number of minutes for the
calling plans used is not exceeded, no reimbursement is required. Failure to
report such use may result in disciplinary action. Failure to reimburse the
village for the cost of the call will result in disciplinary action and could
result in tax liability for the employee.
         (c)   Employees in possession of the village’s equipment such as
cellular phones are expected to protect the equipment from loss, damage or
theft. Upon resignation or termination of employment, or at any time upon
request, the employee may be asked to produce the phone for return or
inspection. Employees unable to present the phone in good working conditions
within 24 hours may be expected to bear cost of a replacement.
         (d)   Employees who separate from employment with outstanding debts
for equipment loss or damage or unauthorized charges will be considered to have
left employment on unsatisfactory terms and may be subject to legal action for
recovery of the loss.
         (e)   The Mayor shall be primarily responsible for the safekeeping of
the cellular phone provided to the Mayor’s office. The Street Superintendent
shall be primarily responsible for the safekeeping of the cellular phone
provided to the Street Department. The Fire Chief shall be primarily
responsible for the safekeeping of all cellular phones provided to the Fire
Department.
      (3)   Safety issues for cellular phones use.
         (a)   Employees whose job responsi- bilities include regular or
occasional driving are expected to refrain from using their personal or
village-issued cellular phone while driving village vehicles or while driving
their personal vehicle on village business. Safety must come before all other
concerns. Regardless of the circumstances, including slow or stopped traffic,
employees are strongly encouraged to pull off to the side of the road and
safely stop the vehicle before placing or accepting a call.
         (b)   Employees who are charged with traffic violations resulting from
the use of their phones while driving will be solely responsible for all
liabilities that result from such actions.
      (4)   Violations.
         (a)   Improper use of village communication systems and equipment will
result in discipline, up to and including discharge. Improper use includes any
misuse as described in this policy as well as any harassing, offensive,
demeaning, insulting, defaming, intimidating or sexually suggestive uses of
written, recorded or electronically transmitted message.
         (b)   Employees who discover a violation of this policy are expected
to immediately notify their supervisor or the Mayor.
         (c)   The village also reserves the right to advise appropriate
officials of any illegal activities.
(Prior Code, § 149.15) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-
15-2022)
§ 34.16 TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Village employees may be entitled to reasonable reimbursement for
expenses incurred while traveling on official village business.
      (2)   In order to seek reimbursement, the employee’s supervisor, Mayor or
Fiscal Officer will approve all expenses in advance. For meetings and
conferences, request forms must be submitted to the department supervisor,
Mayor or Fiscal Officer in advance of the meeting/conference date with a copy
of the meeting’s/conference’s details attached and the names of all village’s
personnel attending.
   (B)   Travel; mileage, parking and tolls.
      (1)   A village vehicle or employee’s personal car may be used for
approved village travel. If an employee’s personal car is used, actual total
mileage from the Village Hall to the authorized destination should be reported
and will be reimbursed at the IRS mileage standard authorized rate.
      (2)   Mileage reimbursement is payable to one employee. If two or more
employees are traveling on the same trip and in the same automobile, only one
will receive the mileage reimbursement.
      (3)   Charges incurred for parking at the destination and any highway
tolls are reimbursable at the actual amount. Receipts for parking costs and
highway tolls are required.
   (C)   Meals.
      (1)   For any period of 24 hours or more that village employees travel
outside the village to carry out official village business or attend a
previously approved seminar, educational workshop or convention, employees will
be reimbursed for meals that are ordinary and necessary for the time away and
the location visited.
      (2)   Each expense voucher submitted will be reviewed for reasonableness
for the circumstance, accuracy and completeness of documentation before payment
is made. Expense vouchers are to be submitted within one month of the last date
of travel for each trip out of the village.
      (3)   If employees attend a conference, workshop or seminar where meals
are being served as a part of the cost of attending the event, and he or she
chooses to forgo the pre-paid meal and eat elsewhere, the employee will be
personally responsible for all costs incurred, including the cost of the
substituted meal, related travel expense and gratuities.
   (D)   Overnight expenses.
      (1)   Hotel/motel bills for approved travel will be paid as submitted on
an original invoice or receipt. The village shall make the reservation in
advance avoiding taxes being charged. If employees use their own credit card,
taxes will not be reimbursed.
      (2)   When possible, employees should use a warrant for paying the hotel
directly. The village is not responsible for taxes and does reimburse employees
for such. The village will provide a tax exemption form when paying for hotels.
A tax exempt certificate does not apply if employees are paying with his or her
personal credit card.
      (3)   When paying for the hotel/motel, employees are to let the Fiscal
Officer know before going to the designation. A check will be provided, along
with the tax exempt form, after the proper paperwork is completed.
      (4)   No reimbursement will be made for lodging within the employees’
county of residence or for the night prior to a meeting or conference that is
within 100 miles from the village and unless the meeting or conference is
scheduled to start prior to 9:00 a.m.
   (E)   Receipts. Original receipts are required for all reimbursable
authorized expenses.
   (F)   Non-reimbursable expenses. Non- reimbursable expenses include:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   Laundry;
      (3)   Entertainment/movies;
      (4)   Tips, other than for meal service (up to 15%); and
      (5)   Personal telephone calls, except for calls that announce to the
employee’s family his or her safe arrival at the destination, pertain to family
emergencies, or report to the employee’s family any uncontrollable changes in
travel plans, or delays to the traveler caused by weather or other unforeseen
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 149.16) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.17 BENEFITS, VACATION, LEAVE AND ABSENCES.
   (A)   Insurance benefits.
      (1)   Full-time employees of the village may be eligible for medical,
dental and life insurance. Part-time employees may be entitled to medical
insurance coverage, as to the extent required by state and federal laws
(Affordable Care Act, being Public Law No. 111-148, Mar. 23, 2010, Statutes at
Large, 124 Stat. 119 through 124 Stat. 1025). Employees with specific questions
regarding their insurance benefits should refer to the appropriate health
insurance booklet for information.
      (2)   The village reserves the right to modify the insurance coverage
currently in effect and/or modify employee premium contributions. The village
also reserves the right to require employees to pay, through payroll deduction,
a percentage of the premium charged to the village.
   (B)   Time away from work.
      (1)   Vacation. Full-time employees, after completion of six months of
service, shall earn 40 hours of vacation time with full pay, unless the
employee is covered by an employee contract, which provides a different
benefit. Each year after the first year, vacations are awarded on the employee
anniversary date, per the schedule below.
 
Length of Service Vacation Hours Earned
6 months - 1 year 40 hours
1 - 5 years       80 hours
6 - 11 years      120 hours
12 or more years  160 hours
 
         (a)   Total full-time employment for the village (except for unpaid
leave of absence) shall be used to compute earned vacation time. Therefore,
prior full-time work in one village department counts toward vacation accrual
when such employee moves to another position in another department.
         (b)   Vacation schedules are subject to the approval of the Mayor and
the employee’s supervisor.
         (c)   Vacations are scheduled in accordance with workload requirements
of the individual department or office.
         (d)   Vacations shall be taken at one-hour intervals, with the
exception of using up a balance for the year that may be partial hours.
         (e)   Vacation requests for three days or less shall be made at least
one week in advance of the requested vacation.
         (f)   Vacation requests for one week or more shall be made at least 30
days in advance of the requested vacation.
         (g)   Employees shall use accrued vacation time in the year in which
it is earned.
         (h)   Employees with at least one year of service are entitled to
payment for any earned but unused vacation in one calendar year at the time
they resign from village service.
         (i)   In the case of an employee’s death, earned but unused vacation
time in one calendar year shall be paid to the employee’s estate.
         (j)   Part-time employees are not entitled to vacation benefits.
         (k)   Part-time and seasonal employees are not entitled to vacation
time.
         (l)   Village employees must work the scheduled day before and the day
after vacation.
      (2)   Holidays.
         (a)   Full-time employees shall receive eight hours of holiday pay for
each of the following observed holidays:
            1.   New Year’s Day (January 1);
            2.   Memorial Day (last Monday in May);
            3.   Independence Day (July 4);
            4.   Labor Day (first Monday in September);
            5.   Veterans Day (November 11);
            6.   Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November); and
            7.   Christmas Day (December 25).
         (b)   If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday immediately
preceding shall be observed as the holiday; if the holiday falls on a Sunday,
the Monday immediately succeeding shall be observed, or a day selected by the
Mayor.
         (c)   A full-time employee who is required to work on a holiday, shall
get holiday pay. Holiday pay is the employee’s normal hourly rate for the
number of hours worked (eight hours) plus overtime pay for the hours worked.
         (d)   Part-time firefighters required to work on a holiday will not
receive holiday pay; however, they shall receive one and one-half times their
hourly rate for the hours worked.
      (3)   Floating holidays or flex days. Martin Luther King Day (third
Monday in January), President’s Day (third Monday in February), and Columbus
Day (second Monday in October) are floating holidays. Employees will be
permitted to reschedule another day off with the approval of his or her
supervisor using the same procedures as is required to schedule a vacation day.
   (C)   Sick time.
      (1)   Each full-time employee shall be entitled to 4.6 hours of paid sick
leave upon completion of each 80 hours of service (from the date of hire),
including vacation and holiday hours, but not including sick time or overtime
hours, with a maximum accumulation of 120 hours per year. Employees on paid
sick leave will be paid at their regular rate of pay.
      (2)   Employees are expected to be in attendance daily and sick leave is
to be used only for those reasons set forth below. If an employee takes time
off claiming sick time, and the village determines it is not sick time, the
time off shall count against the employee’s vacation time. An employee may
submit a request for sick leave for the following reasons:
         (a)   Illness, injury or pregnancy-related condition of the employee;
         (b)   Exposure of an employee to a contagious disease which could be
communicated to and jeopardize the health of other employees;
         (c)   Examination of the employee, including medical, psychological,
dental or optical examination, by an appropriate licensed healthcare
practitioner;
         (d)   Illness, injury or pregnancy-related condition of a member of
the employee’s immediate family where the employee’s presence is reasonably
necessary for the health and welfare of that family member; or
         (e)   Examination, including medical, psychological, dental or optical
examination, of a member of the employee’s immediate family by an appropriate
licensed practitioner where the employee’s presence is reasonably necessary.
      (3)   The definition of immediate family relative to this section shall
be the same as set forth in §
34.11(B).
      (4)   Documentation from a licensed healthcare practitioner will be
required in each case when an employee has been absent more than three
consecutive days. The documentation must be signed personally by the treating
physician and must verify the specific reason that the employee was unable to
work during the period in question and that the employee is able to resume all
the duties of his or her position. The physician’s letter must be submitted to
the supervisor and forwarded to the Fiscal Officer upon the employee’s return
to work. Absence of more than three days may qualify an employee for leave
under FMLA (see §
34.18).
      (5)   The village may require, at its own expense, an employee to be
examined by a physician selected by the village in order to verify the proper
use of sick time.
      (6)   An employee requesting sick time shall inform the supervisor of the
request and the reason as soon as possible, but not later than one-half hour
after the scheduled starting time on each day of the absence. This requirement
may be waived if the employee is hospitalized or has provided a practitioner’s
statement containing an expected date of return.
      (7)   Except for an emergency, the employee may not have family members
or friends call to excuse the employee, or leave voice mail messages or
messages with co-workers in lieu of speaking with the supervisor or designee.
      (8)   If the supervisor or designee is not available at the time of the
call, the employee may telephone the Police Department.
      (9)   Failure to comply with these notification procedures may result in
denial of sick time for the period of absence and such disciplinary action as
may be appropriate.
      (10)   Vacation time may be used for sick time purposes, at the
employee’s request and with the approval of the supervisor and/or Mayor/Fiscal
Officer after sick time is exhausted.
      (11)   Employees who have exhausted all paid sick time, and vacation
time, may, at the sole discretion of the Mayor, be granted an unpaid leave of
absence for a period not to exceed six months as provided in division (G)
below.
      (12)   An employee who fraudulently falsifies sick time requests and
actual sick time, documentation, or records, who misrepresents the grounds for
a sick time request, or who uses sick time for improper purpose shall be
subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. Further, an
employee may be disciplined for excessive time use, whether or not the employee
has exhausted all available paid sick time, based on indications of
inappropriate use of the leave. Employees are expressly prohibited from
engaging in either of the following during a paid or unpaid sick time:
         (a)   Other paid employment of any kind; or
         (b)   Other activities, whether or not paid, that is inconsistent with
the claimed reason for the sick leave.
      (13)   The Mayor may investigate any use of sick time when he or she has
reason to believe that an employee may be abusing sick time and/or not using
sick time for its intended purpose. Intentional misuse of sick time will be
considered theft of public funds and just cause for discharge.
      (14)   Altering a physician’s letter or falsification of a written,
signed leave statement shall be cause for immediate discharge.
      (15)   Employees who transfer between village departments or are rehired
by the village within one year shall be credited with their prior unused
accumulated sick time, if not previously paid out.
      (16)   Sick time shall be charged in increments of quarter-hour
intervals.
      (17)   When sick time and/or vacation are used, it shall be deducted from
the employee’s accumulated balance on the basis of one-half hour of sick time
or vacation for every one-half hour of absence from work.
      (18)   Sick time payments shall not exceed the normal scheduled work day
or work week earnings. Employees may utilize sick time only for the hours and
days in which they are scheduled to work.
      (19)   (a)   Sick time conversion: an employee, at the time of retirement
from active services with the village, or upon the death of an employee while
in active service, shall be paid up to one-fourth of the value of earned but
unused sick time credit. RETIREMENT is defined as disability or service
retirement from active village service, under any state or municipal retirement
system in the state.
         (b)   Payment shall be based on the employee’s hourly rate of pay at
the time of retirement or on the date of death.
         (c)   Payment shall eliminate all sick time credit accrued by the
employee. Eligible employees retiring from active service shall request such
payment in writing in order to initiate the payment process.
   (D)   Bereavement leave (death of relative). In the event of the death of a
member of a full-time employee’s immediate family, eligible employees may be
granted, as defined in §
34.11(B), up to three days’ bereavement leave with pay upon approval of the
Mayor. Bereavement leave is granted to the eligible employee on the day(s)
employee is scheduled to work. A copy of the obituary notice shall be provided
by the employee and given to the Fiscal Officer with a request for leave form
attached to the timesheet.
   (E)   Military leave.
      (1)   Leave of absence. Any full-time village employee who is a member of
the state organized militia or another reserve component of the armed forces of
the United States, including the Ohio National Guard, is entitled to a paid
leave of absence while performing such services for up one month in a calendar
year pursuant to R.C. § 5923.05, and as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Extended leave. Any full-time village employee who is a member of
the state organized militia or another reserve component of the armed forces of
the United States, including the Ohio National Guard and who is called or
ordered to the uniformed services for longer than one month during each
calendar year because of an Executive Order issued by the President or in order
to perform any duty ordered by the Governor or an Act of Congress, is entitled
to the lesser of $500 or the difference between the employee’s military pay and
his or her salary from each month of service.
      (3)   Unpaid leave. Employees whose service in the uniformed services
requires absence from work but who do not qualify for extended military leave
as described in division (E)(2) above will be granted unpaid military leave.
      (4)   Request for leave. An employee who is entitled to paid leave must
submit to his or her department head an employee request for leave form along
with the published order authorizing the call or order to the uniformed
services or a written statement from the appropriate military commander
authorizing the service, prior to receive these payments if the sum of the
employee’s military pay (gross and allowance) in a pay period exceeds the
employee’s gross salary.
      (5)   Re-employment and reinstatement rights.
         (a)   Employees are entitled to all reemployment and reinstatement
rights provided by the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights
Act (USERRA), U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq.
         (b)   The Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act
of 1994, 38 U.S.C. §§ 4301 et seq. (USERRA) prohibits discrimination and
retaliation for an employee’s membership (voluntary or involuntary) in the
uniformed services concerning any aspect of employment.
   (F)   Jury duty. Employees are granted time away from work with pay for jury
duty service. If an employee is summoned for jury duty in any federal, county
or municipal court, he or she shall present a copy of the jury summons to his
or her supervisor within 48 hours of receipt so the supervisor has ample time
to make scheduling adjustments. In turn, this summons shall be given to the
Fiscal Officer. Any hours spent attending jury duty shall be considered hours
worked for purposes of computing overtime, sick time or vacation time.
   (G)   Unpaid personal leave of absence.
      (1)   Employees may request an unpaid leave of absence of up to six
months for personal reasons including, but not limited to, maternity leave,
disability, personal fulfillment and educational pursuits that are not in the
course of and required as part of the job.
      (2)   The Mayor has sole discretion whether to grant the leave and/or the
period of the leave.
      (3)   Employees on unpaid personal leave must keep the Mayor and the
supervisor informed of the status of their leave and provide advance written
notice of their intent to return to work.
      (4)   Failure to return to work following an unpaid leave of absence may
be cause for discharge. If the employee is unable to return due to a
disability, he or she may not be disciplined.
      (5)   An employee on unpaid leave status shall not accumulate sick or
vacation leave, and shall not receive holiday pay. Except as provided in the §
34.18, unpaid leave shall not count for seniority purpose and an employee on
unpaid leave may elect to continue health insurance coverage (COBRA) and
related benefits by paying all applicable premiums and processing fees.
      (6)   The Mayor may revoke the unpaid leave of absence for business
reasons upon one week’s written notice to the employee that the employee must
return to work. An employee on an unpaid leave of absence who is determined to
be using the leave for purposes other than for which it was granted may be
ordered to return to work immediately. Failure to return to work, as instructed
and in accordance with these policies may result in discipline, up to and
including discharge.
   (H)   Absenteeism and tardiness.
      (1)   Excessive absenteeism or tardiness consists of three unexcused
absences or instances of tardiness within a three-month period or absences or
tardiness the day before or after a holiday or a weekend.
      (2)   Employees are expected to be present and ready to work at scheduled
starting times. Supervisors will document instances of employees arriving late
and/or leaving early. Excessive absenteeism, tardiness and/or leaving early
shall be grounds for discipline up to and including discharge.
      (3)   Employees who are going to be absent or late shall notify their
supervisor prior to their scheduled start time. Non-compliance may be subject
to discipline up to and including discharge.
      (4)   An employee, who is absent for a scheduled work day without
approved leave, may be subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
      (5)   Employees who are not exempt from the FLSA shall not receive pay
for any periods of an unauthorized absence.
      (6)   Employees who fail to report to work for three consecutive work
days without notifying their supervisor shall be considered to have abandoned
their position.
   (I)   Emergency related paid administrative leave.
      (1)   When a state of emergency or similar declaration has been issued by
both the state and the Mayor of the village, the Mayor may, in his or her sole
discretion, place any full- or part-time employee on administrative leave with
pay, including hourly wage earners. Further, administrative leave with pay as
described herein may only be used in circumstances where the health or safety
of an employee or of any person or property entrusted to the employee’s care
could be adversely affected. Except as otherwise provided herein, compensation
for administrative leave with pay shall be equal to:
         (a)   The employee’s base rate of pay for salaried full-time
employees; or
         (b)   1.   If an hourly wage earner, the average amount of pay per pay
period that employee has received during the six months immediately preceding
the Mayor’s declaration of emergency up to an amount equal and not to exceed a
40-hour work week.
            2.   As to the pay under division (I)(1)(b)1. above, an hourly
employee shall not receive more leave pay than the total payment for hours he
or she was actually scheduled during the subject pay period even if the
calculated average number of hours exceeds those scheduled.
      (2)   The length of administrative leave with pay is solely at the
discretion of the Mayor but shall not exceed the length of the situation for
which the leave was granted.
(Prior Code, § 149.17) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. O-20-02, passed 2-
4-2020; Ord. O-20-06, passed 4-7-2020; Ord. O-20-08, passed 6-2-2020; Ord. O-
20-19, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 34.18 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village to follow the Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq. (FMLA), and to grant up to
12 weeks of family and medical leave during any 12-month period to eligible
employees.
      (2)   FMLA may be paid, unpaid or a combination of both, depending on the
circumstance of the leave and as specified in this policy.
   (B)   Eligibility. To be eligible for leave under this policy, an employee
must meet all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The employee must have worked for the village for at least 12
months, or 52 weeks and need not have been consecutive;
      (2)   The employee must have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12-
month period immediately prior to the date when the FMLA is scheduled to begin;
and
      (3)   The employee must not have used all 12 weeks of FMLA in the
preceding 12 months.
   (C)   Qualifying leave.
      (1)   To qualify for FMLA under this policy, an employee must request
leave for one of the reasons listed below by completing a form obtained from
the Fiscal Officer:
         (a)   The birth of a child and in order to care for that child;
provided that leave is taken within the 12 months of the birth of the child;
         (b)   The placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to care
for the newly placed child; provided that leave is taken within the 12 months
of the placement of the child; or
         (c)   A serious health condition of the employee or immediate family
that makes the employee unable to perform the functions of the employee’s
position.
      (2)   A SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION is defined as any illness, injury,
impairment or physical or mental condition that involves:
         (a)   Inpatient care, in a hospital hospice or residence medical care
facility;
         (b)   Any period of incapacity of more than three calendar days that
also involves two or more treatments by a healthcare provider or treatment by a
health care provider on one occasion that results in a regimen of continuing
treatment under the supervision of a healthcare provider;
         (c)   Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or for prenatal care;
         (d)   A chronic serious health condition that requires periodic visits
for treatment by a healthcare provider, continues over an extended period of
time, and may be periodic rather than a continuing incapacity;
         (e)   Any period of incapacity which is permanent or long-term and for
which treatment may not be effective;
         (f)   Any period or absence to receive multiple treatments for
restorative surgery for the injury; or
         (g)   Treatment for a condition that would likely result in a period
of incapacity of more than three consecutive calendar days in the absence of
medical intervention or treatment.
   (D)   Duration of leave.
      (1)   An eligible employee can take up to 12 weeks of leave under this
policy during any 12-month period, as defined in division (D)(1)(a) below.
         (a)   The village will measure the 12-month period as a rolling 12-
month period measured backward from the date an employee uses any leave under
this policy.
         (b)   Each time an employee takes FMLA, the village will compute the
amount of leave the employee has taken under this policy and subtract it from
the 12 weeks of available leave and the balance remaining is the amount the
employee is entitled to take at that time. (For example, if an employee used
four weeks of FMLA beginning February 5, 2011, four weeks beginning June 1,
2011 and four weeks beginning December 1, 2011, the employee would not be
entitled to any additional FMLA until February 5, 2012.)
      (2)   Spouses who are both employed by the village are entitled to a
combined total of 12 weeks of FMLA (rather than 12 weeks each) for the birth of
a child, the placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care
or the care of certain family members with serious health conditions, as
defined under division (C)(2)(d) above.
   (E)   Use of paid and unpaid leave. All employees eligible for FMLA will be
required to use all available accrued paid leave or unpaid leave concurrently
with the 12 weeks of FMLA as described in this division (E).
      (1)   When FMLA is due to an employee’s own serious health condition or
the serious health condition of a family member, the employee must use all paid
sick, and vacation leave as part of FMLA. Once available paid leave has been
exhausted, the remainder of the 12 weeks will be taken as unpaid leave.
      (2)   When FMLA is due to the birth of the employee’s child, the employee
must first use all available accrued paid vacation leave prior to using unpaid
leave for the remainder of the 12-week period. If the employee requests leave
for the employee’s own serious health conditions that result from pregnancy or
child birth, the employee will also be required to exhaust all accumulated paid
sick leave prior to using unpaid leave for the remainder of the 12-week period.
      (3)   When FMLA is due to the placement of a child with the employee for
adoption or foster care, the employee must first use all accrued paid vacation
leave prior to using unpaid leave for the remainder of the 12-week period.
      (4)   (a)   The Mayor will designate any absence due to workers’
compensation or disability leave as FMLA for eligible employees and count it
toward the 12-week FMLA entitlement if the employee’s illness or injury
qualifies as a serious health condition. While an employee is receiving
compensation related to a workers’ compensation absence, the employee is not
eligible to use paid leave of any type (except as supplemental benefits, if
applicable and requested by the employee).
         (b)   Employees will be responsible for any payroll deductions that
may be missed as a result of unpaid FMLA.
   (F)   Intermittent/reduced scheduled leave.
      (1)   An employee may take FMLA on an intermittent or reduced work
schedule basis when medically necessary due to a serious health condition of
the employee or a family member. At the discretion of the Mayor, an employee
may take leave on an intermittent or reduced schedule basis for either the
birth of the employee’s child or upon the placement of a child for adoption or
foster care with the employee. In all cases, the FMLA granted to any employee
shall not exceed a total of 12 weeks per 12-month period.
      (2)   Request for intermittent or reduced schedule FMLA must be submitted
in writing at least 30 days prior to taking leave or, if this is not possible,
as soon as practicable.
      (3)   An employee must consult with his or her supervisor, Mayor and
Fiscal Officer in advance to determine a mutually agreeable schedule for a
reduced schedule or intermittent leave.
      (4)   If an agreement is not possible, the employee must submit
additional certification that establishes the medical necessity for
intermittent or reduced schedule leave, including the dates and the duration of
treatment, the expected duration of the intermittent or reduced schedule leave
and a statement from the healthcare provider describing the facts which support
the medical necessity for taking FMLA on an intermittent or reduced schedule
basis.
      (5)   An employee who requests and is granted FMLA in an intermittent or
reduced schedule basis may be temporarily transferred to an available position
with equivalent classification, pay and benefits if the position would better
accommodate the intermittent or reduced schedule.
      (6)   An employee who requests intermittent or reduced schedule leave due
to foreseeable medical treatment shall make a reasonable effort to schedule the
treatment and notify the supervisor so as not to unduly disrupt department
operations.
   (G)   Employee benefits while on FMLA.
      (1)   The village will continue to provide healthcare coverage to an
employee on FMLA at the same level and under the same conditions as if the
employee had continued to work.
      (2)   The village will continue to pay the employer’s portion of premiums
for any health benefits that the employee received through the village during
FMLA, under the same conditions as if the employee had continued to work.
      (3)   During any portion of FMLA that is paid, as described above, the
village will continue to make payroll deductions to collect the employee’s
share of the premium.
      (4)   During any portion of FMLA that is unpaid, the employee must
continue to make his or her COBRA payment either in person or by mail, by the
first day of each month. The employee must contact the employee benefits
representative to make arrangements for payment, if applicable. If the payment
is more than 30 days late, the applicable coverage will terminate for the
remainder of the employee’s leave.
      (5)   The village will provide 15 days’ notice prior to termination of
coverage.
      (6)   During any portion of FMLA that is paid, as described in division
(E) above, the village will continue to make payroll deductions for pre-tax
contributions to an employee’s flexible spending account when applicable.
Contributions to such account will cease for the duration of FMLA once an
employee’s paid leave has been exhausted.
      (7)   If the employee chooses not to return to work for reasons other
than a continued serious health condition or circumstance beyond the employee’s
control, the village may seek reimbursement from the employee for any amounts
paid by the village for insurance benefits which the employee received through
the village during any period of unpaid FMLA.
      (8)   FMLA, whether paid or unpaid, does not constitute a break in
service.
      (9)   Service credit shall continue to accrue during periods of paid
FMLA.
      (10)   FMLA will be treated as continuous service for the purpose of
calculating the rate of accrual for benefits, which are based on length of
service. Leave balances accrued by an employee prior to taking FMLA and not
used by the employee as outlined in §
34.17 will be retained by the employee.
   (H)   Procedures for requesting FMLA.
      (1)   Request for FMLA should be submitted on a standard leave form
available from the Fiscal Officer or the Mayor.
      (2)   When the need for FMLA is anticipated, a request must be submitted
at least 30 days prior to taking leave.
      (3)   If it is not possible to provide 30 days’ advanced notice, a
request must be made as soon as practicable.
      (4)   If the employee fails to provide 30 days’ notice for foreseeable
leave with no reasonable excuse for the delay, the leave may be delayed until
at least 30 days from the date the Mayor receives notice.
      (5)   When a request is made for a foreseeable FMLA due to a serious
health condition of either the employee or a member of the employee’s family
which involves planned medical treatment, the employee shall make a reasonable
effort to schedule the treatment so as not to unreasonably interfere with
departmental operations, subject to the approval of the healthcare provider of
the employee’s family member.
      (6)   When an employee requests FMLA, or when the Mayor, supervisor or
Fiscal Officer becomes aware that an employee’s use of other leave may qualify
for FMLA, the notification letter of FMLA eligibility or ineligibility will be
generated.
   (I)   Certification of need for FMLA.
      (1)   An employee who requests FMLA due to a serious health condition of
the employee or a family member must provide certification from a healthcare
provider of the serious health condition.
      (2)   The signed certification shall be submitted to the Fiscal Officer
at the time FMLA is requested, if the need for leave is foreseeable; within 15
days of the first day of the qualified FMLA or if the need for leave is not
foreseeable; or within 15 days of a request from the Mayor when he or she
becomes aware that an employee may qualify for FMLA.
      (3)   An employee requesting FMLA due to the birth or placement of a
child must submit appropriate documentation at the time FMLA is requested.
      (4)   Certification of the serious health condition shall include the
date when the condition began, its expected duration and a brief statement of
treatment.
      (5)   When the need for FMLA is due to the employee’s serious health
condition, the healthcare provider must confirm in the certification whether
the employee is unable to perform work and is unable to perform the essential
of his or her position.
      (6)   When the need for FMLA is due to the serious medical condition of a
family member, the healthcare provider must complete the certification that
indicates the family member requires assistance and that the employee’s
presence would be beneficial or desirable.
      (7)   The employee must also include a statement that indicates the type
of care to be provided and schedule for the time required for the care of the
family member.
   (J)   Second opinion. The Mayor may require a second medical opinion prior
to granting FMLA in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A healthcare provider designated by the Mayor will render the
second opinion, and the village will pay the cost;
      (2)   If the first and second opinion differs, the Mayor will require the
opinion of a third healthcare provider, mutually selected by the Mayor and the
employee;
      (3)   The third opinion will be considered final; and
      (4)   Failure or refusal of the employee to submit to or cooperate in
obtaining either the second or third opinion, if requested, will result in the
denial of the FMLA request.
   (K)   Periodic reports.
      (1)   Employees who request and are granted FMLA due to a serious health
condition of the employee or a family member may be required to submit periodic
written reports for the healthcare provider to either the supervisor, Fiscal
Officer or the Mayor in order to assess the continued qualification for FMLA.
      (2)   The Mayor may also request additional reports if the circumstances
described in the previous certification, including the duration or frequency of
absence, the severity of the condition, or the presence of complications, have
changed significantly, or if the Mayor receives information that casts doubt on
the employee’s stated reason for the absence.
      (3)   Any costs associated with the additional reports requested by the
Mayor shall be at the employee’s expense.
   (L)   Records.
      (1)   All records related to FMLA will be maintained as required by law.
Any medical records accompanying FMLA requests will be kept separate from an
employee’s personnel file.
      (2)   To the extent permitted by law, medical records related to FMLA
shall be kept confidential.
   (M)   Returning to work after FMLA. When returning to work from a leave due
to a serious health condition, an employee may be required to provide
certification of his or her ability to return to work from the employee’s
healthcare provider.
   (N)   Status following FMLA.
      (1)   Employees of FMLA must give at least two business days’ notice of
their intent to return to work, regardless of the anticipated date of return.
Prior to reinstatement, an employee who takes FMLA based on his or her own
serious health condition shall provide certification from the employee’s
healthcare provider that the employee is able to resume work.
      (2)   Employees who take leave under this policy will generally be
reinstated to the same or an equivalent position upon return from leave.
      (3)   The determination of whether a position is equivalent will be made
by the Mayor and will be based on the relative levels of skill, effort,
responsibility, authority, status, pay, benefits and other terms and conditions
of employment or the position.
      (4)   Certain key employees, as designated by the Mayor, may be exempt
from the required reinstatement.
      (5)   An employee will be notified in writing of his or her status as a
key employee, if applicable, when leave is requested.
      (6)   An employee on FMLA has no greater right to reinstatement or to
other benefits and conditions of employment than if the employee had been
continuously employed during the FMLA period. An employee will not be laid off
as a result of exercising the right to FMLA. However, the village will not
reinstate an employee who has taken FMLA if, as a result of a layoff, the
employee would not otherwise be employed at the time reinstatement is
requested.
   (O)   Workers’ compensation leave.
      (1)   If an employee is unable to work due to a work-related illness or
injury, he or she must present written certification from the physician stating
the extent of the injury or illness, and the expected duration of the absence.
      (2)   The leave will be administered under the terms of the workers’
compensation regulations as well as the provisions of the Family and Medical
Leave Act.
   (P)   Returning to work from a leave of absence. If an employee fails to
return to work within three days after the end of any leave of absence and has
not provided the appropriate documentation to extend the leave, he or she will
be deemed to have abandoned his or her job as of the date of his or her
expected return to work date.
(Prior Code, § 149.18) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.19 MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS AND DISABILITY SEPARATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The village requires employees to maintain a medically
acceptable physical fitness condition consistent with the duties and
responsibilities of their position.
      (2)   All applicants for employment with the village shall submit a
complete physical examination. The applicant must pass this examination as a
condition of being considered for employment. Any applicants who fail to take a
complete physical examination or fails the examination will be denied
employment.
   (B)   Employees may be referred for a fitness for duty examination, when the
village observes some level of difficulty in an employee performing his or her
job. Referrals will be made for reasons that interfere with the employee’s
ability to perform his or her duties. In the event an employee is referred for
a fitness for duty examination and it is determined to be unfit to perform the
essential functions of his or her job by a physician, the employee may be
placed on unpaid medical leave status for a period of six months after the
exhaustion of all paid leave benefits. Before the expiration of the six-month
period, the employee shall have the option to schedule an appointment with the
attending physician to see if any conditions have changed his or her original
determination. If the determination of the physician is that the employee is
unfit for the position for which he or she had been hired, the employee will be
terminated by the village. If the employer’s physician determines that an
employee is unable to perform his or her job, the village will work with the
employee to determine if there are any other positions available for which he
or she is capable, or if the employee should pursue disability or retirement
benefits. In any instance, when the village sends an employee for a medical
examination, the village shall pay the cost of the examination and shall pay
the employee for the time expended in taking such examination.
   (C)   If the employee does not agree with the decision of the examining
physician, he or she may (at his or her own expense), seek an examination from
a second physician. If the decision of the second physician is different than
the village’s physician, a third opinion may be sought. The cost of the third
physician is to be split between the employee and the village. The village and
employee agree that the decision of the third physician is final.
(Prior Code, § 149.19) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 34.20 BUILDING SECURITY.
   (A)   The following procedures will be implemented relative to building and
property security:
      (1)   All police and fire vehicles will be secured when not occupied;
      (2)   Visitors, other than village officials, are required to sign a
visitor sign-in sheet and wait in the lobby for an escort to the office they
wish to visit;
      (3)   The doors leading from the lobby to the Village Hall offices and
Police Department will be kept locked at all times except during maintenance or
cleaning;
      (4)   An employee must be present when building repairs, maintenance or
cleaning are being done by a non-employee;
      (5)   Non-employees, other than officials of the village, will not be
permitted in the service garage unless approved of the Road Superintendent,
unless certain services are being performed for the benefit of the village and
the Road Superintendent has made a determination the such person’s presence is
safe;
      (6)   Village officials must notify Road Superintendent and Street
Committee chair prior entering service garage outside of service hours or when
service garage is not attended by Road Superintendent. The purpose of entry
must accompany notice;
      (7)   No village official shall authorize, at any time, non-village
employee entrance to service garage without Road Superintendent consent; and
      (8)   NOTIFY, as used herein, is defined as to give notice, by means of
email, text, voicemail and the like. NOTIFY does not indicate permission is
required.
   (B)   The service garage, village offices, Fire Department and Police
Department must be kept secure at all times.
(Prior Code, § 149.19) (Ord. O-19-11, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. O-23-02, passed 3-
21-2023; Ord. O-23-15, passed 6-20-2023)
CHAPTER 35: POLICIES
Section
Public Records Policy
   
35.01   Public records; definition; availability
   
35.02   Records request
   
35.03   Costs for public records
   
35.04   E-mail
PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
§ 35.01 PUBLIC RECORDS; DEFINITION; AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The village, in accordance with the state statutes, defines RECORDS as
including the following: any document, paper, electronic (including, but not
limited to, e-mail) or other format, that is created or received by, or comes
under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents the organization,
functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations or other activities of
the office.
   (B)   All records of the village are public unless they are specifically
exempt from disclosure under the state statutes.
   (C)   It is the policy of the village that, as required by state law,
records will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying.
   (D)   Record retention schedules are to be updated regularly and posted
prominently.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. O-17-16, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 35.02 RECORDS REQUEST.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines.
   (A)   Identification required. Although no specific language is required to
make a request, the requester must at least identify the records requested with
sufficient clarity to allow the village to identify, retrieve and review the
records. If it is not clear what records are being sought, the records
custodian must contact the requester for clarification, and should assist the
requester in revising the request by informing the requester of a manner in
which the office keeps its records.
   (B)   Written request. A written request is not mandatory and the requester
may decline to reveal the requester’s identity, or the intended use, and when a
written request or disclosure of the identity or intended use would benefit the
requester by enhancing the ability of the public office or the person
responsible for public records, to identify, locate or deliver the public
records sought by the requester.
   (C)   Inspection of records. Public records are to be available for
inspection during regular business hours with the exception of published
holidays. Public records must be made available for inspection promptly. Copies
of public records must be made available within a reasonable period of time.
Prompt and reasonable take into account the volume of records requested, the
proximity of the location where the records are stored, and the necessity for
any legal review of the records requested.
   (D)   Time required to gather records. Each request should be evaluated for
an estimated length of time required to gather the records. Routine requests
for records should be satisfied promptly if feasible to do so. Routine requests
include, but are not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final
form), budgets, salary information, forms and applications, personnel rosters
and the like. If fewer than 20 pages of copies are requested or if the records
are readily available in an electronic format that can be e-mailed or
downloaded easily, these should be made as quickly as the equipment allows. If
more copies are requested, an appointment should be made with the requester on
when the copies or computer files can be picked up.
   (E)   Acknowledgement. Requests for public records must be acknowledged
within three business days upon actual knowledge of the request and be
satisfied within a reasonable time, unless the scope of the request requires
additional time. If a request is deemed significantly beyond routine, such as
seeking a voluminous number of copies or requiring extensive research, the
village shall provide an estimated number of business days it will take to
satisfy the request, the estimated cost if copies are requested, and to advise
if any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
   (F)   Denial of public records. Any denial of public records requested must
include an explanation, including legal authority. If portions of a record are
public and portions are exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the
rest or a summary, where appropriate, released. If there are redactions, the
production must be accompanied by a supporting explanation.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. O-17-16, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 35.03 COSTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of
making copies, and may be required to pay same in advance.
   (B)   Village employee time is not be included in any such charge.
   (C)   The schedule is as follows:
      (1)   Standard size paper copy charges are $0.10 per page for black and
white or color copies;
      (2)   Enlarged/oversized paper document charged at actual rate of vendor;
      (3)   Downloaded computer files to a disk, CD/DVD are $2 per disc;
      (4)   Audio tapes/electronic recordings/ photographs charged at actual
rate of vendor;
      (5)   Postage/mailing costs at actual rate and charge; and
      (6)   No charge for documents e-mailed (unless a fee is incurred to
convert the same).
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. O-17-16, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 35.04 E-MAIL.
   (A)   Generally. Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined
by the state statutes when their content relates to the business of the office.
E-mail is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats and
should follow the same retention schedules.
   (B)   Private e-mail accounts. Records in private e-mail accounts used to
conduct public business are subject to disclosure, and all employees or
representatives of this office are instructed to retain their e-mails that
relate to public business and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts
and/or to the office’s records custodian.
   (C)   Retaining private e-mail account records. The records custodian is to
treat the e-mails from private accounts as records to the public office, filing
them in the appropriate way, retaining them per established schedules and
making them available for inspection and copying in accordance with the Public
Records Act.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. O-17-16, passed 6-20-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Availability of public records, see R.C. § 149.43
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Income Tax
   
36.001   Authority to levy tax; purpose of tax
   
36.002   Definitions
   
36.003   Imposition of tax
   
36.004   Collection at source
   
36.005   Annual return; filing
   
36.006   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
   
36.007   Estimated taxes
   
36.008   Rounding of amounts
   
36.009   Requests for refunds
   
36.010   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
   
36.011   Amended returns
   
36.012   Limitations
   
36.013   Audits
   
36.014   Service of assessment
   
36.015   Administration of claims
   
36.016   Tax information confidential
   
36.017   Fraud
   
36.018   Interest and penalties
   
36.019   Authority of Tax Administrator; verification of information
   
36.020   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
36.021   Board of Tax Review
   
36.022   Authority to create rules and regulations
   
36.023   Rental and leased property
   
36.024   Savings clause
   
36.025   Collection of tax after termination of subchapter
   
36.026   Adoption of RITA rules and regulations
   
36.027   Election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
36.040   Levy
   
36.041   Rate
   
36.042   Definition
   
36.043   Effective period
   
36.044   Payment
   
36.045   Use of monies
Transient Guest Tax
   
36.060   Purpose, rate and imposition
   
36.061   Definitions
   
36.062   Transient guest to pay the tax
   
36.063   Exemptions to tax
   
36.064   Records; advertising
   
36.065   Returns required; procedure
   
36.066   Registration of hotels and transient accommodations
   
36.067   Failure to collect and report tax
   
36.068   Authority to examine records; refusal to produce records
   
36.069   Appeals
   
36.070   Intent
   
36.071   Examples
   
36.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.172
   Municipal income taxes, see R.C. Chapter 718
   Payroll deductions, see R.C. § 9.42
INCOME TAX
§ 36.001 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSE OF TAX.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements, the village hereby levies an annual
municipal income tax on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   (1)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 1%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving income in the
village. The tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided in §
36.003 and other sections as they may apply.
      (2)   The funds collected under the provisions of this subchapter, or
such part thereof, as may be appropriated by Council, shall be paid into the
Income Tax Fund and shall be applied as Council shall direct.
   (C)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The
tax is levied in accordance with, and is intended to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. Chapter 718.
(Prior Code, § 185.01) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this subchapter that is not otherwise defined in this
subchapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this
subchapter that is not otherwise defined in this subchapter is used in a
comparable context in both the laws of the United States relating to federal
income tax and in R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use
of the term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax
shall control over the use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   For a person required to file as a C corporation, or for a
person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation under this section, a C
corporation’s federal taxable income before net operating losses and special
deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
            1.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
            2.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (a)1. above, but excluding that portion of intangible income directly
related to the sale, exchange or other disposition of property described in
I.R.C. § 1221;
            3.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231;
            4.   a. Except as provided in division (a)4.b. below, deduct income
and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and gain
directly relate to the sale, exchange or other disposition of an asset
described in I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231; and
               b.   Division (a)4.a. above does not apply to the extent the
income or gain is income or gain described in I.R.C. §§ 1245 or 1250.
            5.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction
in the computation of federal taxable income;
            6.   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
            7.   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
            8.   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income;
            9.   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.005(D)(5)(c)2.; and
            10.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.005(D)(5)(c)2.
         (b)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made an election described in of this section, is not a
publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in this
section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal
taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation,
except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a
partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former
member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in
consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under
I.R.C. § 469 or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to
a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         (c)   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation that
commences the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to the Board of Tax
Review pursuant to §
36.021, and has “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top of such
finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include a notice denying a request for
refund issued under §
36.009(C)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (a) above.
      AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      BOARD OF TAX REVIEW, BOARD OF REVIEW or BOARD OF TAX APPEALS.  The entity
created under §
36.021.
      CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on March 31, June 30,
September 30 or December 31.
      CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. The same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
      CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL or POSTAL SERVICE. Any
delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. § 5703.056.
      DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary
or entity is a DISREGARDED ENTITY for federal income tax purposes.
      DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of a taxpayer and to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have more than
one residence but not more than one DOMICILE.
      EMPLOYEE. An individual who is an EMPLOYEE for federal income tax
purposes.
      EMPLOYER. A person that is an EMPLOYER for federal income tax purposes.
      EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (c) below, unemployment
compensation does not include supplemental unemployment compensation described
in I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2);
         (c)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax exempt real estate, tax exempt tangible or intangible property or tax
exempt activities;
         (d)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (e)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (f)   Alimony and child support received;
         (g)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property
from insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost
salaries or wages or compensation from punitive damages;
         (h)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (a) above does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (i)   Gains from involuntary con- versions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (j)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under I.R.C. § 107;
         (k)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
this section;
         (l)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         (m)   An S corporation shareholder’s share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in I.R.C. § 3121(a) or net earnings from self-employment as
defined in I.R.C. § 1402(a);
         (n)   All of the income of individuals under 18 years of age;
         (o)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (p).2., 3. and 4. below,
qualifying wages described in §
36.004(B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(e) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject
to withholding for the village under either of those divisions;
            2.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. below does not apply
with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee resided at the
time the employee earned the qualifying wages;
            3.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. below does not apply
to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
36.004(B)(1)(b); and
            4.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. below does not apply
to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
36.004(B)(1)(b), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
36.004(B)(1)(e), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed
location is located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (p)4.a. below on the basis of the employee not performing services in
that municipal corporation.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in division (p)2. or 3. below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a non-resident individual for
personal services performed in the village on not more than 20 days in a
taxable year; and
            2.   The exemption provided in (p)1. above does not apply under
either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipal corporation;
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of this division
(p)2.b., professional athlete, professional entertainer and public figure have
the same meanings as in §
36.004(B)(1);
               c.   Compensation to which division (q) below applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled; or
               d.   For purposes of division (q) below, BASE OF OPERATION means
the location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (q)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
         (r)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution
or laws of the United States. Any item of income that is EXEMPT INCOME of a
pass-through entity under this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity’s income.
      FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes or annual municipal income tax liability or for filing a
refund claim.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done or
service rendered.
      INCOME.
         (a)   1. For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in this section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (a)1. above:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (a)4. below;
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year;
            3.   Division (a)2. above does not apply with respect to any net
profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ shares of net profits from S corporations are
subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in division this
section; and
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of non-residents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the non-resident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the non-resident, but excluding the non-resident’s distributive share of the
net profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly
by the non-resident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings.
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The same meaning as in R.C. § 5747.01.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 as that chapter existed prior to February 11, 2022, Chapter 1706
or under the laws of another state.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A joint economic development district or joint
economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§ 715.691,
715.70, 715.71 or 715.72.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For a person other than an individual, income apportioned
or sitused to the village under §
36.003, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carry forward
available to the person for the village.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of the village,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income,
then reduced as provided in division (b) below, and further reduced by any pre-
2017 net operating loss carry forward available to the individual for the
municipal corporation.
               b.   For an individual who is a non-resident of the village,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under
§
36.003, then reduced as provided in division (b) below, and further reduced by
any pre-2017 net operating loss carry forward available to the individual for
the village.
         (b)   In computing the MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (a)2.a. or
(b) below, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses reported
on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal income
tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by I.R.C.
§ 67. For the municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the
taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes,
but to the extent the expenses do not relate to exempt income. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer’s
performance of personal services in that non-resident municipal corporation and
are not related to exempt income.
      MUNICIPALITY. The same as the village.
      NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include at-risk limitations,
passive activity loss limitations or unutilized losses resulting from basis
limitations.
      NET PROFIT.
         (a)   For a person who is an individual, the individual’s NET PROFIT
required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E or schedule F reduced by any
net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes of this division (a), the
net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and deducted in the same
manner as provided in division (c) below.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means adjusted
federal taxable income reduced by any net operating loss incurred by the person
in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017, subject to the
limitations of division (c) below.
         (c)   1.   The amount of such operating loss shall be deducted from
NET PROFIT to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero,
with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to
not more than five consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in
which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for
the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by this division (c)
to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by this division (c).
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by this division (c) without regard to the
limitation of division (c)3.a. above.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carry forward deduction that
is available may be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant
to this division (c).
            5.   Nothing in division (c)3.a. above precludes a person from
carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year
beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully
utilized by operation of division (c)3.a. above. To the extent that an amount
of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years
by operation of this section is carried forward for use with respect to a
return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the
limitation described in division (c)3.a. above shall apply to the amount
carried forward.
         (d)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and not withstanding
division (b) above, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the NET
PROFIT of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (e)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits
by the village, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the village, and
shall not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the
partnership. The election shall be made on the annual return for the village.
The village will treat the publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if
the election is so made.
      OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust or disregarded entity.
      PENSION. A retirement benefit plan, regardless of whether the plan
satisfies the qualifications described under I.R.C. § 401(a), including amounts
that are taxable under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, I.R.C. Chapter
21, excluding employee contributions and elective deferrals, and regardless of
whether such amounts are paid in the same taxable year in which the amounts are
included in the employee’s wages, as defined by I.R.C. § 3121(a)
      PERSON. Individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies, business
trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited
liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations, governmental
entities and any other entity.
      POSTAL SERVICE. The United States Postal Service.
      POSTMARK DATE or DATE OF POSTMARK. The date recorded and marked in the
manner described in R.C. § 5703.056(A)(2).
      PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRY FORWARD.
         (a)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning
before January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution
or ordinance of the village corporation that was adopted by the village
corporation before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and utilized to
offset income or net profit generated in the village corporation in future
taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRY FORWARD may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP. Any partnership, an interest in which is
regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in I.R.C. § 3121(a), without regard
to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in I.R.C. § 125;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer; and
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount arises from the
sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a stock
option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased under a
stock option and the municipal corporation has, by resolution or ordinance
adopted before January 1, 2016, exempted the amount from withholding and tax;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in I.R.C. §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457. Division (b)2. above applies only
to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2) and not included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with I.R.C. § 1402(a)(8); and
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year, the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the tax payer did
not elect to exclude the income under I.R.C. § 911;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in I.R.C. § 3121(a);
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year, the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either this division (b) or R.C. § 718.03, as that
section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General
Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in I.R.C. § 318, if the stockholder and the members of the
stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively,
in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s outstanding
stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (d) below; provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; or
         (d)   The attribution rules described in I.R.C. § 318 apply for the
purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in divisions (a)
through (c) above have been met.
      RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in I.R.C. § 1563(b), or a person to or from whom there is
attribution of stock ownership in accordance with I.R.C. § 1563(e) except, for
purposes of determining whether a person is a related member under this
definition, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%” wherever “5%” appears in I.R.C.
§ 1563(e).
      RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipal corporation as
determined under §
36.003(C).
      S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under I.R.C. subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A for its taxable year.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
      SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, TOTAL
REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to,
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends and other investment
income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by the village in accordance with this
subchapter. TAX ADMINISTRATOR does not include the State Tax Commissioner.
      TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner appointed under R.C. § 121.03.
      TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(36) and
26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXPAYER.
         (a)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this subchapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (b)1. below, a disregarded
entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all state municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as that section existed on December 31, 2004;
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing state municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               e.   The state municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (b)1. above, a municipal corporation
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation in the state, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation
for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers
in §§
36.009,
36.012,
36.013,
36.019(B),
36.020,
36.021 and R.C. §§ 5717.011 and 5717.03, and the responsibilities of taxpayers
to file, report, withhold, remit and pay municipal income tax, and otherwise
comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances, and rules and
regulations adopted by the village for the imposition and administration of a
municipal income tax.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Prior Code, § 185.02) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-17-34, passed
12-19-2017)
§ 36.003 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The income tax levied by the village at a rate of 1% is levied on the
municipal taxable income of every person residing in or earning and receiving
income in the village.
   (A)   Individuals.
      (1)   For residents of the village, the income tax levied herein shall be
on all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions and other compensation
from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the
resident’s distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned
directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident. This
is further detailed in the definition of income (§
36.002).
      (2)   For non-residents, income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions
and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the non-
resident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities conducted
in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the non-resident, but
excluding the non-resident’s distributive share of the net profit or loss of
only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the non-resident.
      (3)   For residents and non-residents, income can be reduced to municipal
taxable income as defined in §
36.002. Exemptions which may apply are specified in §
36.002.
   (B)   Refundable credit for non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
      (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation
plan described in I.R.C. § 3121(v)(2)(C).
         (b)   QUALIFYING LOSS means the amount of compensation attributable to
a taxpayer’s non-qualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of
money and property attributable to distributions from the non-qualified
deferred compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money
and property is made by the non-qualified deferred compensation plan. The
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   1.   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the
taxable year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to the village with respect
to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years,
then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is a weighted average of those different tax
rates. The weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to the village
each year with respect to the non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
         (d)   REFUNDABLE CREDIT means the amount of the village’s income tax
that was paid on the non-distributed portion, if any, of a non-qualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   If, in addition to the village, a taxpayer has paid tax to other
municipal corporations with respect to the non-qualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal
corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s
proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the
taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the non-qualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the
village for all taxable years with respect to the non-qualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division (B) is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the non-qualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the non-qualified deferred
compensation.
   (C)   Domicile.
      (1)   (a)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the village for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the village on
the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax
Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (C)(1)(a) if the individual establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the village for all or part
of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the village for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in I.R.C. § 152, to the extent that tuition
paid to such educational institution is based on the residency of the
individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal corporation where the
educational institution is located; or
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
village. For the purposes of this division (C), an individual has one contact
period with the village if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the village and while away overnight from
that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the village.
      (3)   All additional applicable factors are provided in the rules and
regulations.
   (D)   Businesses. This division (D) applies to any taxpayer engaged in a
business or profession in the village, unless the taxpayer is an individual who
resides in the village or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company
or telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(8)
below, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable
situs in the village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
            2.   As used in division (D)(1)(a)1. above, tangible personal or
real property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the
value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental
thereon by eight;
         (b)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under §
36.004(B); and
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
village to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same
period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (D)(1)
above do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the village
may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the
income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or
more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; or
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
36.012(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (D)(2)(a) above, but
only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
36.012(A).
         (d)   Nothing in this division (D)(2) nullifies or otherwise affects
any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) above, wages, salaries and other
compensation includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
            3.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (F)(3)(a)2. above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted; provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (D)(3)(a) or (D)(3)(b) above solely in
order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If the
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (D)(1)(c) above, and except as
provided in division (D)(8) below, receipts from sales and rentals made and
services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as follows.
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village
from a stock of goods located within the village; and
            2.   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village; provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to the village’s tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in the village or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of the village.
The village shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for
the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this division to the
municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (6)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the village, if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate located in the village
to the commissions received from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate
everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of the village shall report the
individual’s net profit from all real estate activity on the individual’s
annual tax return for the village. The individual may claim a credit for taxes
the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the village’s income tax ordinance.
      (7)   When calculating the ratios described in division (D)(1) above, for
the purposes of that division or division (D)(2) above, the owner of a
disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
      (8)   (a)   As used in this division:
            1.   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER means an individual who is
an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes; provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
               a.   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location; and
               b.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
            2.   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this subchapter. An employee or owner may have
more than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
            3.   REPORTING LOCATION means either of the following:
               a.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as
an office, warehouse, storefront, construction site or similar location, that
is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer; or
               b.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a
customer or client of the taxpayer; provided that the taxpayer is required to
withhold taxes under the village’s tax ordinance, on qualifying wages paid to
an employee for the performance of personal services at that location.
            4.   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION means one of the following:
               a.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee
or owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis
during the taxable year;
               b.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an
employee or owner under division (D)(8)(a)4.a. above, the reporting location in
this state at which the employee’s or owner’s supervisor regularly or
periodically reports during the taxable year; or
               c.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an
employee or owner under division (D)(8)(a)4.a. or (D)(8)(a)4.b. above, the
location that the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee’s or owner’s
qualifying reporting location; provided the assignment is made in good faith
and is recorded and maintained in the taxpayer’s business records. A taxpayer
may change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or
owner under this division (D) at any time.
         (b)   1.   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a
taxpayer may elect to apply the provisions of this division (D) to the
apportionment of its net profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers
that make this election, the provisions of division (D)(2) above apply to such
apportionment except as otherwise provided in this division (D).
            2.   A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division
(D) in writing on or with the taxpayer’s net profit return or, if applicable, a
timely filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an
assessment. The election applies to the taxable year for which that return or
appeal is filed and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer
revokes the election.
            3.   The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the Village
Tax Administrator which, after applying the apportionment provisions authorized
in this division (D), the taxpayer is required to file a net profit tax return
for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be required to notify the Village
Tax Administrator in which a qualifying remote employee’s or owner’s qualifying
remote work location is located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to
file a net profit return with that municipal corporation due to business
operations that are unrelated to the employee’s or owner’s activity at the
qualifying remote work location.
            4.   After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election
applies to every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business.
The taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee’s or owner’s qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
            5.   Nothing in this division (D) prohibits a taxpayer from making
a new election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
         (c)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division
(D)(2)(a) above, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the
election described in division (D)(2)(b) above:
            1.   For the purpose of division (D)(2)(a)1. above, the average
original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying remote
employee or owner at that individual’s qualifying remote work location shall be
sitused to that individual’s qualifying reporting location;
            2.   For the purpose of division (D)(2)(a)2. above, any wages,
salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a qualifying
remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual’s qualifying
remote work location shall be sitused to that individual’s qualifying reporting
location; and
            3.   For the purpose of division (D)(2)(a)3. above, and
notwithstanding division (D)(2)(a) 4. above, any gross receipts of the business
or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a qualifying
remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual’s qualifying
remote work location shall be sitused to that individual’s qualifying reporting
location.
         (d)   Nothing in this division (D) prevents a taxpayer from
requesting, or a tax administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with
respect to all or a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (D)(2)(b) above. However, the Tax
Administrator shall not require an alternative apportionment method in such a
manner that it would require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a
municipal corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee’s or owner’s
qualifying remote work location is located in that municipal corporation.
         (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), nothing in
this division (D) is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying
wages.
(Prior Code, § 185.03) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-18-29, passed 1-
3-2018; Ord. O-23-27, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 36.004 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Withholding provisions.
      (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or doing
business in the village shall withhold an income tax from the qualifying wages
earned or received by each employee in the village. Except for qualifying wages
for which withholding is not required under §
36.003 or division (A)(2)(d) or (A)(2)(f) below, the tax shall be withheld at
the rate, specified in §
36.003, of 1%. An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall deduct
and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent
or other payer directly, indirectly or constructively pays the qualifying wages
to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(a) below, an employer,
agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to the Village Tax
Administrator the greater of the income taxes deducted and withheld or the
income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer according to the following schedule.
            1.   a.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be
remitted monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and
withheld or required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer on behalf of the village in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the village in any month of the preceding
calendar quarter exceeded $200.
               b.   Payments under division (A)(2)(a)1.a. above shall be made
to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each
month for which the tax was withheld.
            2.   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (A)(2)(a)1. above of taxes required to be
deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
         (b)   If the employer, agent of an employer or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under I.R.C. § 6302, 26 C.F.R. § 31.6302-1,
or any other federal statute or regulation, the payment shall be made by
electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of all taxes deducted and
withheld on behalf of the village. The payment of tax by electronic funds
transfer under this division (A) does not affect an employer’s, agent’s or
other payer’s obligation to file any return as required under this section.
         (c)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (A) shall be accepted by the Tax Administrator and the village as the
return required of an non-resident employee whose sole income subject to the
tax under this subchapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee’s
employer, agent of an employer or other payer.
         (d)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required
to withhold the village’s income tax with respect to an individual’s
disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such
corporation’s successor entity.
         (e)   1.   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this subchapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
            2.   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other
payer to remit to the village the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
         (f)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to
the village’s income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent
the deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
         (g)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the village until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
         (h)   On or before February 28 of each year, an employer shall file a
withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing:
            1.   The names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the village during the preceding calendar year;
            2.   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee,
the total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
            3.   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax
was withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the
preceding calendar year;
            4.   Any other information required for federal income tax
reporting purposes on Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form
with respect to such employee; and
            5.   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
         (i)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an
employer or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with
the responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
         (j)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold the village
income tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and
constituting qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and
gratuities are under the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division
(A), a tip or gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity
is paid by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the
employee, or if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit
card or other electronic means.
         (k)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this subchapter, to be tax required to be withheld and
remitted for the purposes of this section.
   (B)   Occasional entrant withholding.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         (a)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         (b)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         (c)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee spent the
greatest number of days in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf
of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal corporations in
which the employee spent an identical number of days that is greater than the
number of days the employee spent in any other municipal corporation, the
employer shall allocate any of the employee’s qualifying wages subject to
division (B)(2)(a)1. below among those two or more municipal corporations. The
allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable method, including, but
not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal corporations or an
allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the employee in each such
municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which qualifying wages are
allocated under this division (B) shall be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
WORK with respect to those qualifying wages for the purposes of this section.
For the purposes of this division (B), the location at which an employee spends
a particular day shall be determined in accordance with division (B)(2)(b)
below, except that “location” shall be substituted for “municipal corporation”
wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that division.
         (d)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         (e)   PROFESSIONAL ENTER- TAINER means a person who performs services
in the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per
event basis.
         (f)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per event basis.
         (g)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (B)(3), (B)(5), (B)(6) and (B)(7) below,
an employer is not required to withhold the village income tax on qualifying
wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in the
village if the employee performed such services in the village on 20 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
village;
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the village. For the purposes of this division (B),
presumed worksite location means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in the village at which the employer provides or provided services
that can reasonably be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can reasonably be expected by
the employer to last more than 20 days if either of the following applies at
the time the services commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of the services to complete the services; or
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the village and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
36.004; or
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (B)(2)(a) above, an employee shall
be considered to have spent a day performing services in the village only if
the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf of the
employer in the village than in any other municipal corporation on that day.
For the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee spent in a
particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the following
activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee’s principal
place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)
(2)(b)3. above; provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee does
not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned, used or
controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
state municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (B)(2)(a) above shall apply only
if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages described in that division,
the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages to that
municipal corporation.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4)(b) below, if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in the village exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer shall
withhold and remit tax to the village for any subsequent days in that calendar
year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal
services performed in the village.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the village
under division (B)(4)(a) above may elect to withhold tax for the village for
the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to the employee
for personal services performed in the village.
      (5)   If an employer’s fixed location is the village and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
36.002, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee’s qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the
village, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside the
corporate boundaries of the village. To determine whether an employer qualifies
as a small employer for a taxable year, a the employer will be required to
provide the Tax Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for
the preceding taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(4) above shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 815.04) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-17-34, passed
12-19-2017)
§ 36.005 ANNUAL RETURN; FILING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   An annual village income tax return shall be completed and filed by
every individual taxpayer 18 years of age or older and any taxpayer that is not
an individual for each taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, whether or not a tax is due thereon.
         (a)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all non-resident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer or
other payer under §
36.004 when the non-resident individual taxpayer’s sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the village.
         (b)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for the village’s
income tax purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption
from these filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
The written exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from
which retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives municipal taxable income taxable to the village, at which time the
retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
      (3)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the village, the return or notice required of that individual shall
be completed and filed by the individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
      (4)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be
completed and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
      (5)   The village shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
      (6)   (a)   Each return required to be filed under this division (A)
shall contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized
agent and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return
shall include the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
         (b)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an
individual to include, with each annual return, and amended return, copies of
the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form W-
2, wage and tax statements, including all information reported on the
taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any
municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1040 or, in
the case of a return or request required by a qualified municipal corporation,
Ohio Form IT-1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return, any other
documentation necessary to support the adjustments made in the amended return.
An individual taxpayer who files the annual return required by this section
electronically is not required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing
to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies
after the return has been filed.
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form
1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-REIT, Form 1120F or Form 1120S, and, with respect to
an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary to
support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return. A
taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net profit return
electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other manner shall
either mail the documents required under this division (A) to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway.
         (d)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the village to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(A)(6) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (7)   (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required if the net
amount due is $10 or less.
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each annual
net profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is
not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the
return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is
required if the net amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the village’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the village income tax return shall be the
fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates. An extension of time to file under this division is
not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator
grants an extension of that date. For tax years ending on or after January 1,
2023, the extended due date’s income tax return for a taxpayer that is not an
individual shall be the fifteenth day of the eleventh month after the last day
of the taxable year to which the return relates.
            1.   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the village’s income tax return.
            2.   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may submit a
written request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month
extension of the date for filing the taxpayer’s the village income tax return.
If the request is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the
village income tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the
taxpayer’s requested extension.
         (c)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the village’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the village’s income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
         (d)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to
ensure the payment of the tax imposed by the village, the Tax Administrator may
require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided
in this division (A), including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual
returns.
         (e)   To the extent that any provision in this division (A)(7)
conflicts with any provision in division (C) below, the provisions in division
(C) prevail.
         (f)   1.   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a
municipal income tax return under divisions (A)(7)(b), (A)(7)(c) or (A)(7)(d),
the Tax Administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the
taxpayer with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the
return or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever
occurs first.
            2.   If a Tax Administrator violates division (A)(7)(f)1. above,
the village shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs incurred to
respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
            3.   Division (A)(7)(f)1. does not apply to an extension received
under division (A)(7)(b) above if the Tax Administrator has actual knowledge
that the taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required to receive
the extension under (A)(7)(b) above or failed to file for an extension under
(A)(7)(b)2. above or other applicable division of this section.
      (8)   (a)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the village shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount
due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the village for a
taxable year pursuant to division (A)(8)(a) above shall file with the village
an annual net profit return under division (A)(6)(c) above, unless the
provisions of division (A)(8)(c) below apply.
         (c)   1.   A person may notify the Tax Administrator that the person
does not expect to be a taxpayer subject to the village income tax ordinance
for a taxable year if both the following apply:
               a.   The person was required to file a tax return with the
village for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person performed
services at a worksite location (as defined in § 36.004(B)(1)(g)) within the
village; and
               b.   The person no longer provides services in the village and
does not expect to be subject to the village income tax for the taxable year.
            2.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the village. The affidavit shall also include
the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any services
within the village, make any sales in the village or otherwise become subject
to the tax levied by the village during the taxable year. If the affiant does
become subject to the tax levied by the village for the taxable year, the
affiant agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly comply as a taxpayer
with the village income tax ordinance and rules and regulations.” The person
shall sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
            3.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (A)(8)
(c)2. above, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file and tax
return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information
that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the
affidavit change.
            4.   Nothing in division (A)(8)(c) above prohibits the Tax
Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
      (9)   If a payment under this subchapter is made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the
timestamp assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment.
      (10)   Taxes withheld for the village by an employer, the agent of an
employer or other payer as described in §
36.004 shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against payment of the tax
imposed on the taxpayer by the village, unless the amounts withheld were not
remitted to the village and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
      (11)   Each return required by the village is to be filed in accordance
with this division (A) shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to
authorize another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the
return, to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to
the return.
      (12)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of
any income tax return, report or document required by the village; provided
that the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the
information required by ordinance, resolution or rules and regulations adopted
by the village or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax
return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions
of this subchapter and of the village’s ordinance, resolution or rules and
regulations governing the filing of returns, reports or documents.
   (B)   Filing via Ohio Business Gateway. 
      (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to
the taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file the village’s
income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
   (C)   Extension for service in or for the armed forces.
      (1)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the president of the United
States or an act of the congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Village Tax Administrator for
both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time for
payment of taxes required by the village during the period of the member’s or
civilian’s duty service, and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be
filed on or before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or
civilian’s duty terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax
Administrator considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. The Tax Administrator may
prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
However, taxes pursuant to a contract entered into under this division (C) are
not delinquent, and the Tax Administrator shall not require any payments of
penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the extension period.
         (b)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be
required to file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to
pay any tax otherwise due to the municipal corporation before the one hundred
eighty-first day after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
         (c)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division
(C)(2)(a) above are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (C) denies to any person described
in this division (C), the application of divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above.
         (b)   1.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension
under the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in
which to file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time
in which to make any payment of taxes required by a municipal corporation in
accordance with this subchapter. The length of any extension granted under this
division (C)(3)(b)1. shall be equal to the length of the corresponding
extension that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used
in this division (C), QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard
or a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States
called to active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the
President of the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States,
or a civilian serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency
operation in support of the armed forces.
            2.   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division
(C)(3)(b)1. above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such taxes
become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension period
if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator shall not
require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for
the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any period of
extension granted under division (C)(3)(b)1. above in calculating the penalty
or interest due on any unpaid tax.
      (4)   For each taxable year to which division (C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(3)
above applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)
(c) above, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
   (D)   Consolidated municipal income tax return.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         (a)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in I.R.C. § 1504, except that, if such a group includes at least one
incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the business of
providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the affiliated group
shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that would otherwise be
included in the group.
         (b)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to I.R.C. § 1501.
         (c)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED
FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under this division
(D)(1).
         (d)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4927.01.
         (e)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5727.01.
      (2)   (a)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the village’s
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (D)(2) below or a
taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator
shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
         (b)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income
tax returns under this section must be made in the first year following the
last year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election
period in effect under division (D)(2)(a) above. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
         (c)   An election made under division (D)(2)(a) or (D)(2)(b) above is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
         (d)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80,
a valid election made by a taxpayer under division (D)(2)(a) or (D)(2)(b) above
is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of the five-year period.
         (e)   When an election is made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a
valid election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator
for the remainder of the five-year period.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated village income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the village. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated
village income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated village
income tax return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer
requests and receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a
separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
      (4)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated village income tax return
in the same manner as is required under the United States Department of
Treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated federal income tax return required to be filed by the common
parent of the affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D)(5)(b), (D)(5)
(c) and (D)(5)(d) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
36.002, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
         (b)   No corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
36.002 to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to
the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
         (c)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at
least 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated the village income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
            1.   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(8),
exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in
the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the village. If
the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity shall be subject to
taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity’s net profits that
would otherwise be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the
affiliated group; or
            2.   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(8),
include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in
the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the village. If
the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity shall not be subject
to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity’s net profits
that are included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated
group.
         (d)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less
than 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
            1.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in divisions (D)(1) through (D)
(8), exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the
village; and
            2.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the village’s
income taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this subchapter on
the basis of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (6)   Corporations filing a consolidated village income tax return shall
make the computations required under divisions (D)(1) through (D)(8) by
substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to” for “net
profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
      (7)   Each corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by the village in accordance with this subchapter on
the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for
any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an
affiliated group.
      (8)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the village before January 1, 2016, to file a
consolidated or combined tax return with the village may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Prior Code, § 185.05) (Ord. O-17-34, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. O-18-29, passed
1-3-2018; Ord. O-23-27, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 36.006 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   No credit is provided to residents for tax paid to other municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 185.06) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.007 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for the village’s income tax for the current
taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to the village for the taxable year,
after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and after applying
any estimated tax payment, withholding payment or credit from another taxable
year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section, the following apply.
         (a)   Taxes withheld for the village from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the village in equal amounts on each payment date unless
the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld,
in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the
amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division
(B), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns in §
36.005(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the village,
including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and withholding on
or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the first
month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year. For a person other than an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of
the twelfth month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
36.005.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
36.018 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) below.
The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   Underpayment. An underpayment of any portion of tax liability
determined in division (D) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the
penalty imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable
year if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year; provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the village under §
36.005 for that year; and
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the village but was
not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the first
day of the taxable year.
(Prior Code, § 185.07) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-17-34, passed
12-19-2017)
§ 36.008 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this subchapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$.0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round
amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on
the document.
(Prior Code, § 185.08) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.009 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   As used in this section, withholding tax has the same meaning as in §
36.018.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax levied
by the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Overpayments of $10 or more; or
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested is $10 or more.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor’s claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (C)
(3) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
36.021.
   (D)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (C) above shall be considered to have been filed in a
timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request and the request is received within seven days of such last day; or
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (E)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
36.018(A)(4).
(Prior Code, § 185.09) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.010 SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited with the village, but should have
been deposited with another municipality, is allowable by the village as a
refund but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (B)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with the village is subject to recovery by the village. If
the village’s tax on that income is imposed after the time period allowed for a
refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other municipality, the village
shall allow a non-refundable credit against the tax or withholding village’s
claims is due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipality with respect to such income or
wages.
   (C)   If the village’s tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the non-refundable credit shall be calculated using the
village’s tax rate. However, if the village’s tax rate is greater than the tax
rate in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the non-refundable
credit is to be paid to the village, along with any penalty and interest that
accrued during the period of nonpayment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carry forward.
(Prior Code, § 185.10) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.011 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   If a taxpayer’s tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
the village changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or
state income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the
village. The amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax
Administrator.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due, together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return only:
         (a)   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations and attachments were reopened; or
         (b)   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
36.012 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened; such as, the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by division (D) below for
filing the amended return, even if it is filed beyond the period prescribed in
that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of that division. If
the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be paid by the
village. A request filed under this division (C) shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
36.009.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations and attachments.
   (D)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s village tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended village return showing income subject to the
village’s income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state
tax liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional village income tax shown
due thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is less than $10.
(Prior Code, § 185.11) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.012 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) above may be
extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent of
the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension. Any
extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (C) below.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in §
36.021. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Board of Tax Review did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the sixtieth day
after the date on which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review is
either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no
further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense; provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
36.009.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the village does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the State
Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the State Board of
Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than
the amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as
provided by §
36.009, with interest on that amount as provided by §
36.009(E).
   (E)   No civil action to recover the village’s income tax or related
penalties or interest shall be brought during either of the following time
periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; and
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Prior Code, § 185.12) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.013 AUDITS.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer. A
taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting an
audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer’s
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This division (C)
does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Prior Code, § 185.13) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.014 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address the Tax Administrator has at the time a
document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the Tax
Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a change
of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery
service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS. An address to which the postal service or an
authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver an
assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery is
because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, a copy of each assessment shall be
served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056. With
the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax Administrator
may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided in this
section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic mail.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, a Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a new
last known address, including the use of a change of address service offered by
the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056. If
the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known address, the
assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served. If the
ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable address, the
assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the assessment’s postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other village official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the local Board of Tax Review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(C)(1)(a) above is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and that the
assessment is served.
      (2)   If mailing of an assessment by a Tax Administrator by certified
mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address, the Tax
Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The assessment
shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and include the
following statement: “This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee
under applicable law ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the
Tax Administrator as shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an
appeal may be filed apply from and after that date.” Unless the mailing is
returned because of an undeliverable address, the mailing of that information
is prima facie evidence that delivery of the assessment was completed ten days
after the Tax Administrator sent the assessment by ordinary mail and that the
assessment was served. If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of
an undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division
(C)(1)(a) above. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
under this division in accordance with division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (C) above bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified mail
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (D)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other village official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division (D) prevents the
Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the
person if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the local board
of tax review.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator’s designee from delivering an assessment by a Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (F)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (C)(1)(b) above, including those on which a claim has been delivered
for collection, shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under this
section.
   (G)   Additional regulations as detailed in the rules and regulations shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 185.14) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.015 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the village that arises pursuant to the village’s income tax imposed in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the
municipal corporation:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; or
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Prior Code, § 185.15) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.016 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this subchapter is
confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except in
accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the performance
of that person’s official duties or the official business of the village as
authorized by this subchapter. The Tax Administrator or a designee thereof may
furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received under this subchapter and
other related tax information to the Internal Revenue Service, the Tax
Commissioner and tax administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the village from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Prior Code, § 185.16) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.017 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by the village’s subchapter or state
law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel or
advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the village or the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 185.17) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.018 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This subchapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the village provided they impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of the village.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under I.R.C. § 1274, for July
of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by the village pursuant to
applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE. The federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole
number percent, plus 5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next
following the July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is
determined in accordance with this section.
      RETURN. Any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule and other
document required to be filed with the Tax Administrator or the village by a
taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other payer pursuant to
applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Amounts an employer, any agent of an employer or any
other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s qualifying
wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent or other payer is
required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the village on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of
the village to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (C)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer or other payer
for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax or withholding tax or to file
timely with the village any return required to be filed, the following
penalties and interest shall apply.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A)
above, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and
unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the village may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely
paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the village may
impose a penalty not exceeding 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality shall
impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any fraction
thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the liability
shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total of $150 in assessed penalty
for each failure to timely file a return.
      (4)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect to
returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality may impose a
penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the municipality shall
abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer’s first failure to timely
file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires the village to refund or credit any
penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees that the village has
properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of the village to abate
or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when the
Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion, that
such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By October 31 of each year, the village shall publish the rate
described in division (A) above applicable to the next succeeding calendar
year.
   (G)   The village may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer or any other payer the village’s post-judgment collection costs and
fees, including attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 185.18) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-23-27, passed
12-19-2023)
§ 36.019 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Authority. Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the authority of the
Tax Administrator to perform any of the following duties or functions, unless
the performance of such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision
of the state statutes:
      (1)   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of a query nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths.
         (b)   The powers referred to in this division (A) shall be exercised
by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under the village’s income tax
ordinance.
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator’s findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as
provided in this subchapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
36.003;
      (7)   (a)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, re-determine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations or orders the Tax Administrator has made.
         (b)   If an appeal has been filed with the Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-
determine or correct any tax finding, determination, computation or order which
the Tax Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn
by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final.
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
36.004.
   (B)   Verification of accuracy of returns and determination of liability.
      (1)   A Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records and federal and state income tax returns
of any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this subchapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this subchapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this subchapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by the village or for the withholding of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division (B) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
   (C)   Identification information.
      (1)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to
provide identifying information, which may include the person’s Social Security
number, federal employer identification number or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this subchapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
36.018, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
36.999.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under this division (C) within 30 days
after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a
penalty pursuant to §
36.018.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)
(b) above may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in §
36.999 for a violation of §
36.017 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Prior Code, § 185.19) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.020 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with the rules and regulations.
   (C)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (D)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (E)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (F)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Prior Code, § 185.20) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.021 BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the Legislative Authority of the village, but
such appointees may not be employees, elected officials or contractors with the
village at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the village. This member may be an employee of the village, but may not be
the Director of Finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or
other similar official or an employee directly involved in municipal tax
matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Board of Tax Review shall be two years.
There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may serve if the member
is reappointed by the Legislative Authority. The Board member appointed by the
Mayor of the village shall serve at the discretion of the administrative
official.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the Legislative
Authority may be removed by the Legislative Authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member, the
Legislative Authority must give the member a copy of the charges against the
member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person or
by counsel in the member’s own defense upon not less than ten days’ notice. The
decision by the Legislative Authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Tax Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board of Tax Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Board of Tax Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board of Tax
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the
Legislative Authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board of Tax
Review in the member’s place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board of Tax Review by filing a request with the Board of Tax Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) above,
unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a hearing. If
the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear before the
Board of Tax Review and may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant or other representative. The Board of Tax Review may allow a
hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case,
the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day of the
hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board of Tax Review may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax
Administrator’s assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board of Tax
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Board of Tax Review’s final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Board of Tax Review’s final determination as
provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Tax Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. §
121.22.
(Prior Code, § 185.21) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.022 AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Legislative Authority of the
village, or a Tax Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the
Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an
income tax imposed by the village in accordance with this subchapter. Such
rules shall not conflict with or be inconsistent with any provision of this
subchapter. Taxpayers are hereby required to comply not only with the
requirements of this subchapter, but also to comply with the rules and
regulations.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Prior Code, § 185.22) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.023 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property owners of real property located in the village, who rent
or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for residential
dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental accommodations,
during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the effective date
of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or before the January
31 first following such calendar year a written report disclosing the name,
address and also telephone number, if available, of each tenant known to have
occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such apartment, room or other
residential dwelling rental property.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him or her, or
his or her duly authorized agent, of any person whom he or she believes to have
any knowledge of the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of
residential rental real property in the village. The Tax Administrator, or his
or her duly authorized agent, is authorized to examine any person, under oath,
concerning the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of residential
real property located in the village. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized agent, may compel the production of papers and records and the
attendance of all personnel before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he or she believes such person has knowledge of the name, address and
telephone number of any tenant of residential real property in the village.
   (C)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
36.999:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) above;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) above;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 185.23) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.024 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to
any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose
the tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section or part of this
subchapter or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the
several groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein if found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this
subchapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this subchapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council that this subchapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, or part hereof,
not been included therein.
(Prior Code, § 185.24) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.025 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes
is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this subchapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this subchapter shall have been
fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §§
36.012 and
36.999.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
36.004 and
36.005 as though the same were continuing.
(Prior Code, § 185.25) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.026 ADOPTION OF RITA RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The village hereby adopts the Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) rules and
regulations, including amendments that may be made from time to time, for use
as the village’s income tax rules and regulations. In the event of a conflict
with any provision(s) of the village’s income tax ordinance and the RITA rules
and regulations, this subchapter will supersede. Until and if the contractual
relationship between the village and RITA ceases, this section will supersede
all other provisions within the codified ordinances regarding promulgation of
rules and regulations by the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 185.26) (Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 36.027 ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95 for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
   (B)   A taxpayer, as defined in division (C) below, may elect to be subject
to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 in lieu of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   TAXPAYER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 718.01, except that
TAXPAYER does not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax
imposed under R.C. Chapter 5745. TAXPAYER may include receivers, assignees or
trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a
taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 185.27) (Ord. O-18-29, passed 1-3-2018)
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 36.040 LEVY.
   Council hereby levies an annual license tax upon the operation of motor
vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to R.C. § 4504.172, to
provide additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4504.06 and to
supplement revenue already available for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 183.01) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 36.041 RATE.
   Such tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and every
motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is in the village.
(Prior Code, § 183.02) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 36.042 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any and all vehicles included within the definition of motor
vehicles in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and § 4505.01.
(Prior Code, § 183.03) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 36.043 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall apply to and be in effect for the
registration year commencing January 1, 1988, and shall continue in effect and
application during each registration year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 183.04) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 36.044 PAYMENT.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid to the State Registrar of
Motor Vehicles or to a deputy registrar at the time application for
registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4503.10.
(Prior Code, § 183.05) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 36.045 USE OF MONIES.
   All monies derived from the tax here and before levied shall be used by the
village for the purposes specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 183.06) (Ord. 11-87, passed 9-15-1987)
TRANSIENT GUEST TAX
§ 36.060 PURPOSE, RATE AND IMPOSITION.
   (A)   It is hereby deemed necessary to the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the village that a tax be levied upon all rents
received by a hotel, bed and breakfast or transient accommodations for lodging
and display or sample rooms at the rate of 10% of such total of the rents
charged.
   (B)   For the purpose of providing revenue for which to meet the needs of
the village for the use of the General Fund of the village, an excise tax is
hereby levied on transactions by which lodging by a hotel, bed and breakfast or
other transient accommodation is or is to be furnished to transient guests. The
10% tax is effective on and after January 1, 2019. The tax is 10% of the amount
paid or to be paid by the transient guest for the lodging. The tax applies and
is collectible at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of the time
when the payment for lodging is made.
   (C)   For the purpose of the proper administration of the provisions of this
subchapter, and to prevent the evasion of the tax, it is presumed that all
lodging furnished by hotels or other transient accommodations in the village to
transient guests is subject to the tax until the contrary is established.
(Prior Code, § 187.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FISCAL OFFICER. The Fiscal Officer of the village who shall receive all
income by virtue of this tax.
   HOTEL, BED AND BREAKFAST or TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION. Every establishment
kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a place
where sleeping accommodations, sample, display or meeting space is offered for
the use of the public, or a person, as defined herein, for a consideration,
including operations known as hotels, motels, inns or any other designation of
a like kind. For the purpose of this subchapter, short-term rentals as defined
in §§
110.60 through
110.62 are not considered TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel or transient
accommodation whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee, licensee or
any other capacity charged with the duties of managing or operating the hotel
or transient accommodation. Owner and managing agent shall have the same
liabilities as the principal. Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
by one shall be considered compliance by both.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy of any room for lodging
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, without
any deduction therefrom.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. Any person who uses any such hotel or transient
accommodation and shall be subject to and pay the tax hereby levied.
(Prior Code, § 187.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.062 TRANSIENT GUEST TO PAY THE TAX.
   (A)   The tax shall constitute a debt owed by the transient guest which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator, as trustee for the village, or to
the village. The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel
or other transient accommodation at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment.
   (B)   If any guest should refuse to pay such tax to the operator, the
operator shall immediately notify the Fiscal Officer who may require that such
transient guest pay the tax due directly to the Fiscal Officer.
(Prior Code, § 187.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.063 EXEMPTIONS TO TAX.
   No tax shall be imposed under this subchapter:
   (A)   Upon rents not within the taxing power of the village under the
Constitution or laws of the state or the United States;
   (B)   Upon rents paid by the state or any of its political subdivisions; and
   (C)   Upon food or beverage served in a room subject to the tax herein
levied.
(Prior Code, § 187.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.064 RECORDS; ADVERTISING.
   (A)   The tax to be collected shall be so stated and charged separately on
any record, contract, bill or statement of charges made for the occupancy, and
the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the operator as trustee for and on
account of the village, and the operator shall be liable for the collection
thereof and for the tax.
   (B)   No operator of a transient accommodation shall advertise or state in
any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof
will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that any part thereof will be
refunded.
(Prior Code, § 187.05) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.065 RETURNS REQUIRED; PROCEDURE.
   This tax shall be paid to the Fiscal Officer by each operator every calendar
quarter. The first quarter is payable by March 31, 2019, and shall be remitted
to the Fiscal Officer within 30 days from the end of each successive quarter.
The tax shall be paid in cash or by check which shall be remitted together with
an affidavit upon a form prescribed by the Fiscal Officer, signed by the
operator of the hotel or other transient accommodation, stating the gross
receipt received for lodging during that calendar quarter. Any willful
falsification of any of the information required shall constitute a violation
of the law of perjury and will be subject to punishment as such.
(Prior Code, § 187.06) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.066 REGISTRATION OF HOTELS AND TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments must be registered as set forth in §§
110.45 through
110.48.
(Prior Code, § 187.07) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.067 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX.
   If any operator of a transient accommodation fails or refuses to collect the
transient guest tax or to file a return and make a remittance of such tax or
any portion thereof, as required by this subchapter, the Fiscal Officer or
other authorized agent of the village shall proceed in such manner as may be
deemed best to obtain the necessary information on which to base an estimate of
the tax due.
(Prior Code, § 187.08) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.068 AUTHORITY TO EXAMINE RECORDS; REFUSAL TO PRODUCE RECORDS.
   (A)   The books, records, papers or accounts of any operator required to
collect the transient guest tax levied and imposed by this subchapter shall, at
all reasonable times, be made available and subject to examination and audit by
the Fiscal Officer or other authorized agent of the village for the purpose of
verifying any return made or the correctness of the amount of tax due or to
ascertain and assess the tax imposed by this subchapter if no remittance of tax
due was made or no return made or filed with the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   The refusal to produce or make available such books, records, papers
or accounts as set forth in this section shall be deemed a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 187.09) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.069 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from any ruling, decision or action taken by the Fiscal
Officer or other authorized agent of the village under the authority conferred
by this subchapter shall be made to Council in writing within ten days after
notification has been made of such ruling, decision or action taken.
   (B)   Council shall have the authority to annul, modify or affirm any such
ruling, decision or action appealed from, in conformity with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 187.10) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.070 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to levy an excise tax of 10% on
transactions by which lodging by a hotel or other transient accommodation is or
is to be furnished to transient guests as referred to and authorized by R.C. §
5739.02(C). Accordingly, this subchapter shall be construed to effectuate that
purpose so as to be consistent with any requirement of law compliance with
which is a prerequisite to the validity of the tax intended to be levied
hereby.
(Prior Code, § 187.11) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.071 EXAMPLES.
   The following examples are published to illustrate, for the benefit of the
public, the application of the tax in specific situations:
   (A)   If a person engages or reserves, and pays for any hotel room(s), the
tax applies;
   (B)   If, such a guest occupies a suite of rooms or two or more connecting
rooms, the tax applies to the suite or all of the connecting rooms unless each
connecting room or separate room comprising the suite, is regularly assigned a
rate for lodging and rented for separate lodging, in which case the tax applies
only to the rent for the rooms so occupied for lodging, not to those occupied
for other purposes;
   (C)   If lodging is provided without any compensation therefor and for the
regular rates of all other lodgings in the hotel, the tax does not apply to
such complimentary lodging;
   (D)   Vouchers contained in voucher books, thrift books and coupon books,
which entitle the purchaser of the books to trade at different retail
establishments shall be treated as money when applied to pay for lodging and
the tax shall attach to all rents paid by the use of such vouchers, including
in the tax base the money value of the coupon or voucher; or
   (E)   If the lodgings are rented one or more times in any 24-hour period to
different guest(s) or consumer(s), the tax applies to each rental.
(Prior Code, § 187.13) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
36.004,
36.016(A) or
36.017 by failing to remit the village’s income taxes deducted and withheld
from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term
of up to six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is
an employee, or official, of the village, the individual is subject to
discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
      (2)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of §
36.016(A) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of the village, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
      (3)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
36.016(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by this §§
36.001 through
36.027;
         (b)   File any incomplete or false return;
         (c)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by §§
36.001 through
36.027;
         (d)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and federal and
state income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
         (e)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers or federal and state income tax returns relating
to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator;
         (f)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
         (g)   Fail to comply with the provisions of §§
36.001 through
36.027 or any order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
         (h)   Give to an employer false information as to his or her true
name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or fail to promptly
notify an employer of any change in residence address and date thereof; or
         (i)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this §§
36.001 through
36.027.
      (5)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in division (B)(4)
above shall be subject to the penalties provided for in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 185.99)
   (C)   (1)   Any operator of a transient accommodation who fails to remit any
tax imposed by §§
36.060 through
36.071, within the time required, shall pay a penalty equal to 10% per annum
simple interest of the amount of tax due in addition to the tax and any penalty
provided for in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
36.060 through
36.071 shall be fined an administrative/civil fine as listed in the village fee
schedule pursuant to §
37.01. The first offense shall be deemed a level one violation, a second
offense shall be deemed a level two violation and each offense thereafter shall
be deemed a level three violation. Each day such violation or each day a
withholding of tax duly owed to the village occurs or continues shall be deemed
a separate violation.
      (3)   If payment is not received by the village within 30 days from the
date of the mailing such notice, Council shall then make a written return to
the County Fiscal Officer of its action, showing the total charges together
with all applicable attorney and/or collection agency fees up to one-third of
the total amount owed. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate,
shall be a lien upon the lot from the date of entry and shall be collected as
other taxes are collected and returned to the village by the County Fiscal
Officer.
      (4)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee has the discretion to waive up to
50% of the total assessed fine or lien and execute any related paperwork in
changing a lien release. The Village Council must approve any fine waiver or
lien release beyond 50% of the total fine or lien levied.
(Prior Code, § 187.99)
(Ord. O-15-32, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 37: VILLAGE FEE SCHEDULE AND BOND AND INSURANCE SCHEDULE
Section
   
37.01   Village fee schedule
   
37.02   Village bond and insurance schedule
§ 37.01 VILLAGE FEE SCHEDULE.
   The village shall maintain a comprehensive fee schedule that lists the fees
as they relate to this code of ordinances. Once initially adopted, the dollar
amounts listed in the village comprehensive fee schedule shall only be amended
by agreement of at least two of the three following village officials: Mayor,
Zoning Inspector and Village Engineer. Where there is a conflict between the
fee amount listed in the code and the comprehensive fee schedule, the
comprehensive fee schedule shall rule.
Village Fee Schedule
Classification Fee Amount Minimum Deposit Amount Code Section Form #
Village Fee Schedule
                                                                      Minimum    Code
Classification                                            Fee Amount  Deposit    Section Form #
                                                                      Amount
   Administrative/Civil Fines
Level 1 violation                                         $150        –        –     –
Level 2 violation                                         $250        –        –     –
Level 3 violation                                         $500        –        –     –
   Bee Registration
Keeping of bees registration                              $25         –        152.210 E
                                                                                 (D)(11) 1137.01
   Construction Contractor Registration
Construction contractor annual registration               $25         –        110.02  B
                                                                                         731.02
                                                          $20 per
                                                          day, not to            110.02  BB
Construction contractor registration civil penalty fee    exceed $500 –        (D)     731.02
                                                          for any
                                                          given year
General Rental Fees
                                                          $50 plus    $25        30.04   A
Rental fee for the lower room of Village Hall             deposit     refundable (A)     121.04
                                                                      deposit
                                                          $100 plus   $25        95.05   AA
Rental fee for the village park system                    deposit     refundable (A)     917.06
                                                                      deposit
   High Grass and Weeds
Cost of notice for high grass                             $100        –        94.07   D
                                                                                 (C)     909.07
Cost to cut high weeds and grass (unless hired by outside $100 per               94.07   DD
contractor)                                               person per  –        (F)     909.07
                                                          hour
High grass penalty                                        $100        –        94.07   DDD
                                                                                 (G)     909.07
   Notice of Foreclosure and Vacant Buildings
Notice of foreclosure filing fee                          $50         –        150.072 S
                                                                                         1351.03
Vacant building registration fee (commercial)             $50         –        150.091 SSS
                                                                                 (B)     1361.07
Vacant building registration fee (residential)            $50         –        150.091 SS
                                                                                 (A)     1361.07
Vacant building registration late fee                     $10         –        150.091 SSSS
                                                                                 (F)     1361.07
   Oil and Gas Permit
Application for an oil and gas permit                     $250        –        152.119 R
                                                                                         1125.05
   Overnight Accommodation Businesses
Bed and breakfast, annual license fee                     $50         –        110.46  C
                                                                                         771.02
Short-term rental, annual license fee                     $50         –        110.61  CC
                                                                                         781.02
   Planning and Zoning
Planning and zoning actions (other)
   Appeals application                                 No fee      –        152.057 P
                                                                                         1113.08
   Conditional use application                         $300        –        152.055 N
                                                                                         1113.06
                                                          $300
   Variance application                                commercial  –        152.056 O
                                                          and $200                       1113.07
                                                          residential
   Zoning text or map amendment                        $250        $2,000     152.054 M
                                                                                         1113.05
Sign fees:
   Signs                                               $50         –        152.053 Q
                                                                                         1113.04
   Subdivision/development signs                       $50         –        152.053 QQQQ
                                                                                         1113.04
                                                          $50 plus    $50                QQ
   Temporary signs                                     deposit     refundable 152.304 1113.04
                                                                      deposit
Zoning certificate fee
   Commercial/industrial accessory structures          $250        $2,000     152.053 III
                                                                                         1113.03
   Commercial/industrial additions                     $250        $2,000     152.053 II
                                                                                         1113.03
   Fences, walls and similar permanent structures      $50         –        152.225 K
                                                                                         1141.01
                                                                      $1,000
   Governmental/institutional/ miscellaneous accessory             (waived            JJJ
structures                                                $0          for        152.053 1113.03
                                                                      village
                                                                      projects)
                                                                      $2,000
                                                                      (waived            JJ
   Governmental/institutional/ miscellaneous additions $0          for        152.053 1113.03
                                                                      village
                                                                      projects)
                                                                      $2,000
   Governmental/institutional/ miscellaneous new                   (waived            J
buildings                                                 $0          for        152.053 1113.03
                                                                      village
                                                                      projects)
   Multi-family new residential dwellings              $100        $2,000     152.053 H
                                                                                         1113.03
   New commercial/industrial buildings                 $450        $2,000     152.053 I
                                                                                         1113.03
   New single-family or 2-family residential dwellings $200        $2,000     152.053 F
                                                                                         1113.03
   Residential accessory structures                    $50         $1,000     152.053 G
                                                                                         1113.03
   Single-family or 2-family residential additions     $100        $1,000     152.053 FF
                                                                                         1113.03
   Swimming pools                                      $25         –        152.210 L
                                                                                 (D)(20) 1137.01
 
(Prior Code, § 105.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 37.02 VILLAGE BOND AND INSURANCE SCHEDULE.
   The village shall maintain a comprehensive bond and insurance schedule that
lists the bond and insurance requirements as they relate to this code of
ordinances. Once initially adopted, the dollar amounts listed in the village
bond and insurance schedule shall only be amended by agreement of at least two
of the three following village officials: Mayor, Zoning Inspector and Village
Engineer. Where there is a conflict between the bond or insurance amount listed
in this code of ordinances and the comprehensive bond and insurance schedule,
the comprehensive bond and insurance schedule shall rule.
Classification Bond/Insurance Policy Amount Code Section
Village Bond and Insurance Schedule
                                                            Bond/
Classification                                              Insurance  Code
                                                            Policy     Section
                                                            Amount
Village Bond and Insurance Schedule
                                                            $40,000
                                                            for
                                                            cemeteries
                                                            of 40
                                                            acres, an  152.087
Cemetery performance bond                                   additional (D)
                                                            $5,000
                                                            shall be
                                                            required
                                                            for each
                                                            10 acres
Insurance covering the applicant’s liability (oil and gas Not less   152.133
well)                                                       than       (A)
                                                            $2,000
                                                            Not less   152.121
Oil and gas wells performance bond                          than       (A)
                                                            $10,000
                                                            Not less   110.61
Short-term rental general liability insurance               than       (A)
                                                            $500,000
                                                            As
                                                            determined
Stormwater regulations                                      by the     51.09
                                                            Village
                                                            Engineer
                                                            125% of
                                                            the
                                                            demolition
                                                            cost as
                                                            required
Vacant property an building demolition                      by the     150.089
                                                            Zoning
                                                            Inspector
                                                            and/or
                                                            Planning
                                                            Commission
                                                            Not less
                                                            than $100  152.175
Wireless communication towers and antennae surety bond      per        (A)(11)
                                                            vertical
                                                            foot
 
(Prior Code, § 105.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   STORMWATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
Sanitary Sewers
   
50.01   County designation
   
50.02   County authority
   
50.03   Replacement or restoration of roads, sidewalks and other city property;
cost
   
50.04   Applicable law, rules and regulations
   
50.05   Effect of repeal
   
50.06   Definition
Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control
   
50.20   Purpose and scope
   
50.21   Applicability
   
50.22   Definitions
   
50.23   Disclaimer of liability
   
50.24   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
   
50.25   Responsibility for administration
   
50.26   Discharge and connection prohibitions
   
50.27   Monitoring of illicit discharges and illegal connections
   
50.28   Enforcement
   
50.29   Remedies not exclusive
Statutory reference:
   Interference with sewage flow, see R.C. § 4933.24
   Sewage treatment systems, see R.C. Chapter 3718 and O.A.C. § 3701-29
   Untreated sewage, see R.C. Chapter 6109
SANITARY SEWERS
§ 50.01 COUNTY DESIGNATION.
   The county is hereby designated the sanitary sewer provider for all areas
within the village’s corporate boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 915.01) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.02 COUNTY AUTHORITY.
   The county is authorized, on an ongoing basis, with input from the village
advisory panel to acquire, construct, maintain and operate sanitary sewer
facilities within the village’s corporate boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 915.02) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.03 REPLACEMENT OR RESTORATION OF ROADS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER CITY PROPERTY;
COST.
   All road surfaces, curbs, sidewalks, sewers, water supply facilities or
other public improvements or property that may be disturbed or damaged by the
construction of sanitary sewer facilities by the county or its contractors
shall be replaced or restored within a reasonable time by the county, and the
cost shall be treated as a part of the cost of the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 915.03) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.04 APPLICABLE LAW, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The county’s codified ordinances, rules and regulations and R.C. Chapter
6117 shall control the provisions of sanitary sewer services and facilities
within the corporate boundaries of the village, including, but not limited to,
all permits to connect, construction standards of sanitary sewer facilities,
rates, fees, charges and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 915.04) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.05 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   All sanitary sewer facilities acquired, constructed, maintained and operated
by the county pursuant to this subchapter shall continue to be owned,
maintained and operated by the county following any repeal of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 915.05) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 50.06 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The County of Summit, Ohio, through its Department of Environmental
Services, or its legal successor in interest.
(Prior Code, § 915.06) (Ord. O-15-33, passed 11-17-2015)
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLEGAL CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 50.20 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the village through the regulation of
illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4). This
regulation establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the MS4 in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process as required by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA). The objectives of this subchapter
are:
   (A)   To prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4; and
   (B)   To establish legal authority to carry out inspections, monitoring
procedures and enforcement actions necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 921.01) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.21 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional facilities responsible for discharges to the MS4 and on any lands
in the village, except for those discharges generated by the activities
detailed in §
50.26(A)(1) through (A)(3).
(Prior Code, § 921.02) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to stormwater.
   COMMUNITY. The village, its designated representatives, boards or
commissions.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY (USEPA). The United States Environmental Protection Agency, including,
but not limited to, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) or any
duly authorized official of said agency.
   FLOATABLE MATERIAL. Any foreign matter that may float or remain suspended in
the water column, and includes, but is not limited to, plastic, aluminum cans,
wood products, bottles and paper products.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL CONNECTION. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, that allows an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. As defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(2), any discharge to
an MS4 that is not composed entirely of stormwater, except for those discharges
to an MS4 pursuant to a NPDES permit or noted in §
50.26.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). As defined at 40 C.F.R. §
122.26(b)(8), a conveyance or system of conveyances (including roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches,
human-made channels or storm drains):
      (1)   Owned or operated by a state, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, municipality, township, county, district, association or other public
body (created by or pursuant to state law) having jurisdiction over sewage,
industrial wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer
district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal
organization, or a designated and approved management agency under § 208 of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1288, that discharges to waters of the
United States;
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (3)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as
defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by Ohio EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area wide basis.
   OFF-LOT DISCHARGING HOME SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A system designed to treat
home sewage on-site and discharges treated wastewater effluent off the property
into a stormwater or surface water conveyance or system.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or on the owner’s behalf.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents, oil and other
automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, floatable
materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous materials, wastes,
sewage, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes, residues that result
from constructing a structure, and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of a source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
(Prior Code, § 921.03) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.23 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall not relieve any
person from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law.
The provisions of this regulation are promulgated to promote the health, safety
and welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any
individual or for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.
(Prior Code, § 921.04) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.24 CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Where this subchapter is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the village, shall
prevail.
   (B)   If any clause, section or provision of this subchapter is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a nuisance on their property, and compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate such a nuisance.
   (D)   Failure of the village to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the site owner
from the responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the village, its officers, employees or agents being
responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 921.05) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.25 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The village shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. The village may contract with the County Board of Health to conduct
inspections and monitoring and to assist with enforcement actions.
(Prior Code, § 921.06) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 50.26 DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall discharge, or cause
to be discharged, an illicit discharge into the MS4. The commencement, conduct
or continuance of any illicit discharge to the MS4 is prohibited except as
described below:
      (1)   Water line flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains;
air conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
street wash water; and discharges or flows from firefighting activities. These
discharges are exempt until such time as they are determined by the village to
be significant contributors of pollutants to the MS4;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the village as being necessary
to protect public health and safety; and
      (3)   (a)   Discharges from off-lot discharging home sewage treatment
systems permitted by the County Board of Health for the purpose of discharging
treated sewage effluent in accordance with O.A.C. § 3701-29-02 until such time
as the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency issues an NPDES permitting
mechanism for residential one-, two- or three-family dwellings. These
discharges are exempt unless such discharges are deemed to be creating a public
health nuisance by the County Board of Health.
         (b)   In compliance with the stormwater management program, discharges
from all off-lot discharging home sewage treatment systems must either be
eliminated or have coverage under an appropriate NPDES permit issued and
approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency. When such permit
coverage is available, discharges from off-lot discharging home sewage
treatment systems will no longer be exempt from the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Prohibition of illegal connections. The construction, use, maintenance
or continued existence of illegal connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
      (1)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (2)   A person is considered to be in violation of this regulation if the
person connects a line conveying illicit discharges to the MS4, or allows such
a connection to continue.
(Prior Code, § 921.07) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.27 MONITORING OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Establishment of an illicit discharge and illegal connection
monitoring program. The village shall establish a program to detect and
eliminate illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4. This program
shall include the mapping of the MS4, including MS4 outfalls and home sewage
treatment systems; the routine inspection of stormwater outfalls to the MS4,
and the systematic investigation of potential residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional facilities for the sources of any dry weather
flows found as the result of these inspections.
   (B)   Inspection of residential, commercial, industrial or institutional
facilities.
      (1)   The village shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to this regulation as often as may be necessary to determine compliance
with this subchapter.
      (2)   The village shall have the right to set up at facilities subject to
this subchapter such devices as are necessary to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge, as determined by the village.
      (3)   The village shall have the right to require the facility owner/
operator to install monitoring equipment as necessary. This sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in safe and proper
operating condition by the facility owner/operator at the owner/operator’s
expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated by the village to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and reasonable
access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed
by the facility’s owner/operator at the written or oral request of the village
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the facility owner/operator.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village access to a facility
subject to this regulation for the purposes of illicit discharge inspection is
a violation of this subchapter.
      (6)   If the village is refused access to any part of the facility from
which stormwater is discharged, and the village demonstrates probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of an inspection and sampling program
designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the public health, safety and welfare, the village may
seek issuance of a search warrant, civil remedies including, but not limited
to, injunctive relief and/or criminal remedies from any court of appropriate
jurisdiction.
      (7)   Any costs associated with these inspections shall be assessed to
the facility owner/operator.
(Prior Code, § 921.08) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. When the village finds that a person has violated
a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the village
may order compliance by written notice of violation. Such notice must specify
the violation and shall be hand delivered, and/or sent by registered mail, to
the owner/operator of the facility. Such notice may require the following
actions:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit discharges or illegal connections;
      (3)   The violating discharges, practices or operations cease and desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; or
      (5)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   Abatement. If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property are required, the notice of violation shall set forth a deadline
within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice
shall further advise that, should the facility owner/operator fail to remediate
or restore within the established deadline, a legal action for enforcement may
be initiated.
   (C)   Notice Any person receiving a notice of violation must meet compliance
standards within the time established in the notice of violation.
   (D)   Administrative hearing. If the violation has not been corrected
pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, the Planning
Commission shall schedule an administrative hearing to determine reasons for
non-compliance and to determine the next enforcement activity. Notice of the
administrative hearing shall be hand delivered and/or sent registered mail.
   (E)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any owner/operator to
violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
subchapter pursuant to R.C. § 3709.211. If an owner/operator has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the village may
petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the owner/
operator from activities that would create further violations or compelling the
owner/operator to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 921.09) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.29 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
in the discretion of the village to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 921.10) (Ord. O-19-3, passed 2-5-2019)
CHAPTER 51: STORMWATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Legislative purposes and objectives
   
51.02   Authority
   
51.03   Jurisdiction
   
51.04   Definitions
   
51.05   Applicability
   
51.06   Contents of the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
   
51.07   Inspection
   
51.08   Enforcement
   
51.09   Bonding
   
51.10   Administration
Statutory reference:
   Water pollution control, see R.C. Chapter 6111
   Water supply, see O.A.C. § 4101:3-6-01
§ 51.01 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   In order to protect, maintain and enhance both the natural environment
including groundwater and surface water in conjunction with the safety and
general welfare of the citizens in the village, this chapter has the following
objectives:
   (A)   To control erosion and sedimentation so as to prevent its deposition
in streams and other receiving water bodies; including culverts, drainage
systems and public lands;
   (B)   Maintain the integrity of local drainage systems, so as to sustain
their hydrologic functions;
   (C)   Prevent increases in the magnitude and frequency of stormwater runoff
so as to prevent localized flooding and costs associated with flooding;
   (D)   Facilitate the removal of pollutants in stormwater runoff thus
enhancing water quality so as to perpetuate the natural functions of streams
and receiving waters; and
   (E)   To the extent practical, secure multiple community benefits such as
groundwater protection and replenishment, open space protection and increased
recreational opportunity through integrated land use and stormwater management
planning.
(Prior Code, § 913.01) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted in accordance with and pursuant to the legal
grant of authority of Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution (R.C. §
307.79) to adopt rules to abate soil erosion and water pollution by soil
sediment.
(Prior Code, § 913.02) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.03 JURISDICTION.
   Upon approval of this subchapter by the village, all site disturbing
operations and construction activities requiring approval under this subchapter
shall be in conformance with the provisions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 913.03) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Any deleterious effect on receiving waters, including their
quality, quantity, surface area, aesthetics or usefulness for human or natural
uses. Such deleterious effect is or may potentially be harmful or injurious to
human health, welfare, safety or property, or which unreasonably interfere with
the enjoyment of life or property, including outdoor recreation.
   APPLICANT. Any person who executes the necessary forms to procure official
approval of a project or a permit to carry out construction of a project.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative ground cover.
   DEVELOPMENT. To make a site or area available for use by physical
alteration. DEVELOPMENT includes, but is not limited to, providing access to a
site, clearing of vegetation, grading, earth moving, providing utilities and
other services such as parking facilities, stormwater management and erosion
control systems, and sewage disposal systems, altering landforms or
construction of a structure on the land.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area contributing runoff to a single point, and/or its
watershed.
   EROSION. The removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice or
other geological factors.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A system of structural and vegetative measures
that minimize soil erosion and off-site sedimentation.
   FIRST FLUSH. The delivery of a large load of pollutants during the early
part of storms due to rapid runoff of accumulated pollutants. The FIRST FLUSH
in these guidelines is defined as the runoff generated from a one-year 24-hour
storm event from land which has been made more impervious from pre-development
conditions through land grading and construction/development activities.
   FLOODPLAIN. For a given flood event, that area of land temporarily covered
by water which adjoins a watercourse.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Impermeable surfaces, such as pavement or rooftops, which
prevent the percolation of water into the soil.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit,
issued by the Ohio EPA for construction activities.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point and time
resulting from a storm event.
   RETENTION. A practice designed to store stormwater runoff by collection as a
permanent pool of water without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or attenuated release when runoff volume exceeds the permanent
storage capacity of the permanent pool.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. The landscape features on both sides of a stream,
including soils, slope and vegetation, whose alteration can directly impact a
stream’s physical characteristics and biological properties.
   RIPRAP. A combination of large stone, cobbles and boulders used to line
chattels, stabilize storm sewer outfalls and reduce runoff velocities.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). An erosion and sediment
control strategy or plan, to minimize erosion and prevent off-site
sedimentation during construction and improve post-construction water quality.
The SWPPP must be reviewed, approved and implemented in accordance with this
chapter.
   WATERSHED. The total drainage area contributing runoff to a single point.
(Prior Code, § 913.04) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.05 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Activities. It has been established that land clearing, land grading,
earth moving or development activities can have a significant effect on the
environment, therefore, no person, corporation, organization or public agency
shall, on or after the effective date of this chapter: initiate any land
clearing, grubbing, land grading, earth moving or development activities in
excess of one acre without first preparing a Stormwater Pollution Prevention
Plan (SWPPP) and obtaining approval of said plan from the village, or the
County Soil and Water Conservation District (if requested by the village).
   (B)   Exemptions. The following activities are exempt from the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan:
      (1)   Land disturbance on less than one acre;
      (2)   Existing land-disturbing activities related to producing
agricultural crops or silviculture operations regulated by O.A.C. Chapter 901:
13-1;
      (3)   Existing strip mining operations regulated by R.C. Chapter 1513;
      (4)   Existing surface mining operations regulated by R.C. Chapter 1514;
and
      (5)   Emergencies posing an immediate danger to life or property, or
substantial flood or fire hazards.
   (C)   Consultations. In implementing these regulations, the Village Engineer
or other community officials may consult with the local SWCD, state and federal
agencies and other technical experts as necessary. Any cost associated with
such consultations may be assessed to the applicant or their designated
representative.
(Prior Code, § 913.05) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 CONTENTS OF THE STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).
   (A)   Responsibility. The applicant is responsible for submitting an SWPPP
so that the village can evaluate the environmental characteristics of the
affected areas, the potential and predicted impacts of the proposed grading on
water resources, and the effectiveness and applicability of measures proposed
to minimize soil erosion, off-site sedimentation and water quality enhancement.
The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing, grading,
drainage and construction shall be conducted in strict accordance with the
plan.
      (1)   For specific components of an SWPPP, the applicant should refer to
the stormwater pollution prevention plan checklist available at the County Soil
and Water Conservation District Office.
      (2)   All best management and post-construction practices must be in
accordance with the most recent addition of the “Rainwater and Land Development
Manual, State’s Standards for Stormwater Management and Urban Stream
Protection”.
      (3)   All sediment basins and traps must maintain a minimum 75% trapping
efficiency throughout the construction period. An approved program to determine
trapping efficiency is available through the County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   (B)   Approvals.
      (1)   Stormwater pollution prevention plans shall be approved by the
County Soil and Water Conservation District or the village’s appointee.
      (2)   The contractor, developer or his or her agent shall conduct a pre-
construction meeting on site with the County SWCD or Village Inspector to
review the SWPPP implementation.
      (3)   On all sites with disturbed areas in excess of two acres, approval
of the inspection agency shall be requested upon completion of installation of
perimeter erosion and sediment controls, but before proceeding with any other
earth disturbance or grading, other building or grading inspection approvals
may not be authorized until this initial approval by the inspection agency is
made.
      (4)   Approval shall be requested upon final stabilization of all sites
with disturbed areas in excess of two acres before removal of controls.
(Prior Code, § 913.06) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection frequency and reports.
      (1)   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the approved SWPPP on site.
      (2)   Every active site having an SWPPP shall be inspected for compliance
with the plan by the developer’s agent in accordance to the Ohio EPA NPDES
permit.
      (3)   Inspectors (SSWCD or a village appointed inspector) shall prepare
written reports after every inspection. The inspection report shall describe:
         (a)   The date and location of the site inspection;
         (b)   Whether or not the approved plan has been properly implemented
and maintained;
         (c)   Any practice or erosion and sediment control plan deficiencies;
         (d)   If a violation exists, the type of corrective action required;
and
         (e)   If a violation continues the type of enforcement action taken.
      (4)   The inspection agency shall notify the on-site personnel or the
owner/developer in writing when violations are being observed, describing:
         (a)   The nature of the violation;
         (b)   The required corrective action; and
         (c)   The time period in which to have the violation corrected.
   (B)   Right of entry. It shall be a condition of every zoning, grading or
building permit that the inspection agency has the right to enter property
periodically to inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Modifications to stormwater pollution prevention plans. When
inspection of the site indicates the approved SWPPP needs to be modified, the
modification shall be made in compliance with the erosion and sediment control
criteria contained in the standards and specifications as follows.
      (1)   The permittee shall submit requests for major modifications to
approved SWPPPs, such as the addition or deletion of a sediment basin, to the
plan approval agency to be processed appropriately. This processing includes
modifications due to plan inadequacies at controlling erosion and sediment as
revealed through inspection.
      (2)   The inspector may approve minor modifications to approved SWPPP in
the field if documented on a field inspection report. The plan approval agency
shall, in conjunction with the inspection agency, develop a list of allowable
field modifications for use by the inspector.
   (D)   Complaints. The inspection agency shall receive complaints and
initiate enforcement procedures when violations are confirmed. Any complaint
received shall be acted upon, routinely within three working days and the
complainant shall be notified of any action or proposed action routinely within
seven working days of receipt of the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 913.07) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the County SWCD Inspector (or other village appointed inspector)
determines the approved SWPPP is not being properly installed or maintained,
the Inspector shall notify the on-site personnel or the permittee of the
violation and describe the required corrective action. The permittee shall have
30 days to bring the site into compliance.
   (B)   If the violation persists after the date specified for corrective
action in the notice of violation, the Inspector shall recommend to the village
that work on the site be stopped. The Inspector and/or village shall determine
the extent to which work is stopped, which may include all work on the site
except that work necessary to correct the violation.
   (C)   If reasonable efforts to correct the violation are not undertaken by
the permittee, the village shall refer the violation for civil or criminal
legal action.
   (D)   The village may deny the issuance of any additional permits to an
applicant when it determines that the applicant is not in compliance with the
provisions of a building or grading permit or SWPPP.
   (E)   Any step in the enforcement process may be taken at any time,
depending upon the severity of the violation.
   (F)   If a person is working without a permit, the village shall stop work
on the site with the exception of activity necessary to provide erosion and
sediment control.
(Prior Code, § 913.08) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.09 BONDING.
   The village shall require a security bond, escrow account, certified check
or cash to guarantee that the planned temporary and permanent soil erosion,
sediment control and water quality practices will be constructed and removed in
a timely manner, as determined by the Village Engineer.
   (A)   The guarantee. The guarantee of both performance and maintenance will
be in the form of a security bond, escrow account, verified check or cash. The
security bond, escrow account, verified check or cash will be used by the
community to complete any guaranteed construction or removal of improvements or
temporary and permanent soil erosion, sediment control and water quality
practices that are not adequately completed, maintained or removed by the owner
in a timely manner, as determined by the Village Engineer. The security bond,
escrow account, verified check or cash will be in the total amount of both the
performance guarantee and the maintenance guarantee. State municipalities and
counties may require performance bonds or other guarantees for water management
improvement as stated in R.C. § 711.101.
   (B)   Performance guarantee. The furnishing of a performance guarantee will
be maintained in an amount of not less than 20% of the estimate approved by the
Village Engineer of installation of the deferred improvements.
   (C)   Maintenance guarantee. The maintenance guarantee shall be maintained
for a period of not less than two years after final acceptance of the soil
erosion, sediment control and water quality practices in an amount equal to 20%
of the estimate approved by the Village Engineer of the construction of such
practices.
   (D)   Time extension. The Village Engineer may extend the time allowed for
the installation of the improvements with the receipt of a written request from
the owner.
   (E)   Completion. Upon completion of the construction of improvements or
temporary and/or permanent soil erosion, sediment control and water quality
practices and the removal of temporary to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer, the security bond, escrow account, verified check or cash shall be
released.
(Prior Code, § 913.09) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 51.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Village Engineer,
Zoning Inspector or other appointed official who is authorized to issue stop
work orders for violators of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 913.10) (Ord. 03-08, passed 2-18-2003)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.13   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guard
   
70.14   Application to drivers of government vehicles
   
70.15   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.16   Impounding motor vehicle on private property; requirements
   
70.17   Abandonment of junk motor vehicle prohibited
   
70.18   Junk motor vehicle; order to cover or remove; notice; exceptions
   
70.19   Authority to regulate local traffic
   
70.20   Conformity with state manual
   
70.21   Permit required for traffic signal on state route
   
70.22   Violations subject to misdemeanor classification
   
70.23   Owner may establish non-liability for local traffic offenses by proof
of lease of vehicle
   
70.24   Parades and assemblages
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 93
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title, Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality.
For the purpose of this Title and Chapter 95, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self- propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power- operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or MOTORCYCLE without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self- propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICER. An officer appointed pursuant to R.C. § 1501.24.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
   WILDLIFE OFFICER. An officer designated pursuant to R.C. § 1531.13.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Prior Code, Chapter 301)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the
offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the
range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been
found guilty of an offense under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any
other substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension
as described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Prior Code, § 303.01)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Prior Code, § 331.20)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04) (Prior Code, § 303.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042) (Prior Code, § 303.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) (Prior Code, § 303.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) (Prior Code, § 303.06)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Prior Code, § 313.02)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05) (Prior Code, § 303.03)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, university campus police department, park district police force, or
township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
         (e)   A natural resources officer or a wildlife officer.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 70.13 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARD.
   (A)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this Traffic Code; provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which such guard may be
assigned.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 70.14 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 303.07)
§ 70.15 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal of a vehicle
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle or ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE as defined in R.C.
§ 4513.63 is left on private property for more than 48 consecutive hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without notification
to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving such vehicle in such place.
Prior to disposal of an ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE as defined in R.C. §
4513.63, it shall be photographed by a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner and is located upon either public or private property;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required plates and is located upon any public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony and is located upon either public or private property;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property, and
is located upon any public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended either on public or private
property due to the removal of an ill, injured or arrested operator, or due to
the abandonment thereof by the operator during or immediately after pursuit by
a law enforcement officer;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision and is located either on public or
private property;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked and is located upon a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking; or
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required, and
is located upon a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) of this section
shall be ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under R.C.§
4513.60 et seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall
be ordered into storage and the municipal police shall forthwith notify the
registered vehicle owner of the fact of such removal and impounding, reasons
therefor and the place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded
vehicle shall appear at the police offices to furnish satisfactory evidence of
identity and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a release
form, the claimant, owner or operator shall either pay the amount due for any
fines for violations on account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the
court may require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to
answer to such violations. The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon
the receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 303.08)
§ 70.16 IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, upon complaint of any person adversely affected, may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left on private residential or private
agricultural property for at least four hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property. The chief, upon
complaint of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
When ordering a motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the chief
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (A)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is removed from the
private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or
other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to division (B) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means private
property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a home,
residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than three
separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. The phrase
does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (C)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of motor vehicles that the chief orders
into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section. The record shall
include an entry for each such motor vehicle that identifies the motor
vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color, the location from which it
was removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the
person from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it
has been taken and from which it may be recovered. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any
person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under division (A)
(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency
with which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as
the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining
to its location.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         (a)   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         (b)   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(D)(1)(b) of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (A)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         (a)   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the chief
to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         (b)   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (D)(3) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (A)(1) of this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (H) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
   (H)   Private tow-away zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         (a)   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow- away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow- away zone.
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B).
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (H)(1)(a)
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         (b)   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this
division (H) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that
complies with all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow-away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles;
            2.   It is well-lighted;
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   (a)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is
established as a private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of
this section, without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the
private property may cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The
towing service shall remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (H).
The vehicle owner and the operator of the vehicle are considered to have
consented to the removal and storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the
applicable fees established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25, and to the right of a towing service to obtain title to
the vehicle if it remains unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner
or lienholder of a vehicle that has been removed under this division (H),
subject to division (H)(3) of this section, may recover the vehicle in
accordance with division (H)(7) of this section.
         (b)   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to division (H)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
         (c)   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (H)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow- away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   (a)   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (H)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (H)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (H). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         (b)   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division
(H)(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   (a)   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of this section causes
the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under division
(H)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of removing the
vehicle, shall provide notice to the law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered;
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         (b)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed from private
property in the chief’s jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away
zone of which the chief has received notice under this division (H). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The chief shall
provide any information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to
a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   (a)   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
            1.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real-time access to
owner and lienholder information.
         (b)   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the state in which
the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of the owner and any
lienholder under this division shall ensure that such information is provided
in a timely manner.
         (c)   Subject to division (H)(6)(f) of this section, the towing
service or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any
known lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner’s and lienholder’s last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (H)(6)(c)1. of this
section.
         (d)   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (H)(6)(c)
of this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         (e)   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         (f)   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (H)(6)(c)1. of this section.
      (7)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (H)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (H)(6)(a)1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (H)(6) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
         (b)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (H)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (H)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         (c)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         (d)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (H)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of division (H)(7)(d) of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (H) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (H), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (H).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(A) through (G) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4613.65
as they relate to property other than private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone under division (H)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (H)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner
of the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of
the following:
         (a)   Any person who holds title to the property;
         (b)   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         (c)   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
         (d)   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (H)
(11)(a) to (H)(11)(c) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
§ 70.17 ABANDONMENT OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in §
95.04 on private property for more than 72 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway for 48 hours
or longer without notification to the chief of a law enforcement agency of the
municipal corporation of the reason for leaving the motor vehicle in such
place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing contained in §
95.01,
95.02 and
95.04 and R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.61 and 4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the
enactment of further provisions of municipal ordinances regulating or
prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on streets, highways, public
property, or private property within the municipality.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 70.18 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE; NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting the requirements of §
95.04(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5) that is left uncovered in the open on
private property for more than 72 hours with the permission of the person
having the right to possession of the property, except if the person is
operating a junk yard or scrap metal processing facility licensed under the
authority of R.C. § 4737.05 through 4737.12, or otherwise regulated under
authority of a political subdivision; or if the property on which the motor
vehicle is left is not subject to licensure or regulation by any governmental
authority, unless the person having the right to the possession of the property
can establish that the motor vehicle is part of a bona fide commercial
operation; or if the motor vehicle is a collector’s vehicle.
      (2)   The municipality shall not prevent a person from storing or
keeping, or restrict him or her in the method of storing or keeping, any
collector’s vehicle on private property with the permission of the person
having the right to the possession of the property, except that the
municipality may require a person having such permission to conceal, by means
of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction, any
unlicensed collector’s vehicle stored in the open.
      (3)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal corporation,
a state highway patrol trooper, the Legislative Authority, or the zoning
authority may send notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to
the person having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice, the junk
motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other
suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
      (4)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in
the open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.65)
§ 70.19 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE LOCAL TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The provisions of the State Traffic Code as contained in R.C. Chapters
4511 and 4513 do not prevent the municipality from enacting local traffic
regulations covering the following activities with respect to the streets and
highways under local jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of the
police power by the municipality:
      (1)   Regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles;
      (2)   Regulating traffic by means of police officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulating or prohibiting processions or assemblages on streets or
highways;
      (4)   Designating particular streets as one-way streets and requiring
that all vehicles on the one-way streets be moved in one specific direction;
      (5)   Regulating the speed of vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designating any street or highway as a through street or highway
and requiring that all vehicles stop before entering or crossing a through
street or highway, or designating any intersection as a stop intersection and
requiring all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection;
      (7)   Regulating or prohibiting vehicles from passing to the left of
safety zones;
      (8)   Regulating the operation of bicycles; provided that no such
regulation shall be fundamentally inconsistent with the uniform rules of the
road prescribed by this Traffic Code and that no such regulation shall prohibit
the use of bicycles on any public street or highway except as provided in §
70.06;
      (9)   Requiring the registration and licensing of bicycles, including the
requirement of a registration fee for residents of the municipality;
      (10)   Regulating the use of certain streets by vehicles.
   (B)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4) through (A)
(8) or (A)(10) of this section shall be effective until signs giving notice of
the local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the entrance to the street
or highway or part of the street or highway affected, as may be most
appropriate.
   (C)   Every ordinance, resolution or regulation enacted under division (A)
(1) of this section shall be enforced in compliance with §
70.23.
(Prior Code, § 305.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 4511.07
§ 70.20 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
Traffic Code shall conform to the “Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways,” as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
(Prior Code, § 305.02)
§ 70.21 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRAFFIC SIGNAL ON STATE ROUTE.
   No traffic control signal shall be placed or maintained upon an extension of
the state highway system within the village without first obtaining the
permission of the State Director of Transportation. The Director may revoke the
permission and may require to be removed any traffic control signal that has
been erected without his or her permission on an extension of a state highway
within the village, or that, if erected under a permit granted by the Director,
does not conform to the state manual as required by §
70.20, or that is not operated in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 305.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 4511.11(C)
§ 70.22 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO MISDEMEANOR CLASSIFICATION.
   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating the rules and regulations
promulgated in connection with this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
(Prior Code, § 305.04)
§ 70.23 OWNER MAY ESTABLISH NON-LIABILITY FOR LOCAL TRAFFIC OFFENSES BY PROOF
OF LEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle shall be entitled to establish non-liability
for prosecution for violation of an ordinance, resolution or regulation enacted
under §
70.19(A)(1) by proving the vehicle was in the care, custody or control of a
person other than the owner at the time of the violation pursuant to a written
lease agreement providing that except for such agreement, no other business
relationship with respect to the vehicle in question exists between the
operator and owner.
   (B)   Proof that the vehicle was in the care, custody or control of a person
other than the owner shall be established by sending a copy of such written
lease agreement to the prosecuting authority within 30 days from the date of
receipt by the owner of the notice of violation. The furnishing of a copy of a
written lease agreement shall be prima facie evidence that a vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of a person other than the owner.
(Prior Code, § 305.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 4511.071
§ 70.24 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
      (3)   The permit may be refused or cancelled if:
         (a)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
         (b)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
         (c)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
         (d)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
         (e)   The information contained in the application is found to be
false, misleading or incomplete in any material detail; or
         (f)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
      (4)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the place of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 311.02)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab  transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
(Prior Code, § 313.01
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u- turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade-crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Prior Code, § 313.03)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) (Prior Code, § 313.04)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) (Prior Code, § 313.09)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Prior Code, § 313.05)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Prior Code, § 313.07)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Prior Code, § 313.08)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18) (Prior Code, § 313.10)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031) (Prior Code, § 313.11)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section;
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A)) (Prior Code, § 335.09)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A)) (Prior Code, § 335.10)
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C)) (Prior Code, § 335.111)
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A)) (Prior Code, § 335.11)
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C)) (Prior Code, § 335.09)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D)) (Prior Code, § 335.10)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B)) (Prior Code, § 335.111)
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D)) (Prior Code, § 335.11)
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236) (Prior Code, § 333.10)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Prior Code, § 335.08)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Prior Code, § 335.04)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F)) (Prior Code, § 335.03)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
(Prior Code, § 335.041)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
(Prior Code, § 335.03)
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
(Prior Code, § 335.03)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213) (Prior Code, § 335.02)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Prior Code, § 335.05)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
(Prior Code, § 333.02)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Prior Code, § 335.06)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11) (Prior Code, § 335.07)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111) (Prior Code, § 335.074)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12) (Prior Code, § 335.01)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
(Prior Code, § 335.071(A) - (F))
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (I)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 335.071)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
   (F)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of financial
responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any document
with the purpose to mislead a peace officer upon the request of a peace officer
for proof of financial responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101.
Any person who violates this division (F) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 335.072)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 4509.102
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 335.073)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01) (Prior Code, § 341.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of- service order while the person’s driving privilege
is suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
(Prior Code, § 341.04)
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of- service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
(Prior Code, § 341.03)
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non- excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self- certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C))
(Prior Code, § 341.05)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
(Prior Code, § 341.06)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
   
72.019   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
   
72.133   Failure to control; weaving; full-time and attention
   
72.134   Squealing tires, “peeling,” cracking exhaust noises
   
72.135   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Prior Code, § 313.01)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Prior Code, § 313.29)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Prior Code, § 313.02)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Prior Code, § 313.03)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Prior Code, § 313.04)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Prior Code, § 313.05)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Prior Code, § 313.06)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Prior Code, § 313.07)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Prior Code, § 313.30)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Prior Code, § 313.08)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Prior Code, § 313.09)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Prior Code, § 313.31)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Prior Code, § 313.10)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Prior Code, § 313.12)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Prior Code, § 313.13)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Prior Code, § 313.14)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Prior Code, § 313.15)
§ 72.018 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
         (a)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
         (b)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite
directions, approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that
portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof;
         (c)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a
private road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, private road, driveway or building.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 331.11)
§ 70.019 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access
highway except at such entrances and exits as are established by public
authority.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 331.32)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Prior Code, § 313.16)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Prior Code, § 313.17)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Prior Code, §§ 313.18, 331.19)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
(Prior Code, § 313.23)
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Prior Code, § 313.22)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right- of-way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Prior Code, § 371.07)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
(Prior Code, §§ 313.21, 313.211)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Prior Code, § 313.24)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Prior Code, § 371.08)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right- of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of- way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Prior Code, § 371.01)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Prior Code, § 371.02)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Prior Code, § 371.03)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Prior Code, § 371.04)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Prior Code, § 371.05)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) (Prior Code, § 371.06)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Prior Code, § 371.10)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491) (Prior Code, § 371.11)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Prior Code, § 371.09)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
(Prior Code, § 371.12)
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Prior Code, § 331.40(b))
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Prior Code, § 331.39)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63) (Prior Code, § 331.40(a))
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Prior Code, § 331.38)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 313.25)
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
(Prior Code, § 351.08)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701) (Prior Code, § 313.35)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
(Prior Code, § 313.26)
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A)) (Prior Code, § 313.27)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 373.11)
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Prior Code, § 313.33)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
(Prior Code, §§ 313.27, 333.031)
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Prior Code, § 313.28)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
(Prior Code, § 311.02)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
(Prior Code, § 331.42)
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (Prior Code, § 337.26)
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Prior Code, § 337.27)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) (Prior Code, § 311.43)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 339.10)
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice- operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204) (Prior Code, § 333.11)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205) (Prior Code, § 335.032)
§ 72.133 FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING; FULL-TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle without exercising reasonable and
ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle in a weaving or zigzag course unless
such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle without giving his or her full-time
and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 331.34)
§ 72.134 SQUEALING TIRES, “PEELING,”CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no
person shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a
manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped
position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise
unusual to its normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or
leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 331.36)
§ 72.135 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for the
purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 331.41)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing, stunt driving and street takeovers prohibited
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN- PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under § 73.02, shall state that the person may
have an independent test performed at the person’s expense. The failure or
inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a person shall not preclude
the admission of evidence relating to the chemical test or tests taken at the
request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician- paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99(G) or
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, § 73.02 and § 73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
   (O)   Twenty-five dollars of any fine imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal or county indigent
drivers alcohol treatment fund pursuant to R.C. § 4511.193.
(Prior Code, § 333.01)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   General OVI penalty, see R.C. §§ 4511.19 and 4511.193
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken at
your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Prior Code, § 333.01)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20) (Prior Code, § 333.02)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201) (Prior Code, § 333.02)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202) (Prior Code, § 333.08)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING AND STREET TAKEOVERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BURNOUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the vehicle are
spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit smoke
from the friction.
      DOUGHNUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels in a
continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid- mark pattern of rubber on
the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit
smoke from the friction, or both.
      DRIFTING. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways skid during a
turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the opposite of the
direction of the turn.
      STREET RACING. The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by
side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other
or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course, from
the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the participating
vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds. The operation of two or
more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of prima-facie lawful
speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9) or rapidly accelerating
from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful
speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of street racing.
      STREET TAKEOVER. Blocking or impeding the regular flow of vehicle or
pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on private property
that is open to the general public for the purpose of street racing or stunt
driving.
      STUNT DRIVING. Performing or engaging in burnouts, doughnuts, drifting,
or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either partially or fully outside
of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      WHEELIE. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the front
wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground or whereby two
wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off of the ground.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt driving,
or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on private
property that is open to the general public.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to
any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than 30 days or more
than three years. No judge shall suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of
an offender’s license, permit, or privilege imposed under this division.
   (D)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the political subdivision with jurisdiction
of the location or owner of the property knowingly permits such operation
thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Prior Code, § 333.07)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled- access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F)) (Prior Code, § 333.03)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Prior Code, § 333.04)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Prior Code, § 333.06)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Prior Code, § 333.05)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361) (Prior Code, § 333.11)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini- truck on the public streets or highways to submit
the vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini- trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Prior Code, § 335.12)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Prior Code, § 335.13)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Prior Code, § 335.14)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
   
74.40   Air cleaner required
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.62   Use of local streets; local permit and conditions
   
74.63   Route and load information
   
74.64   Shifting load; loose loads
   
74.65   Load limit of 10,000 pounds on certain streets
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Prior Code, § 337.01)
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) (Prior Code, § 337.29)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see
    O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Prior Code, § 337.02)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Prior Code, § 337.03)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Prior Code, § 337.04)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Prior Code, § 337.05)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Prior Code, § 337.06)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071) (Prior Code, § 337.24)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) (Prior Code, § 337.07)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Prior Code, § 337.08)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 337.09)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal- drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal- drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
(Prior Code, § 337.10)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Prior Code, § 337.11)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Prior Code, § 337.12)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Prior Code, § 337.13)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Prior Code, § 337.14)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Prior Code, § 337.15)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
(Prior Code, § 337.16)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Prior Code, § 337.17)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 337.18)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Prior Code, § 337.19)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Prior Code, § 337.20)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Prior Code, § 337.21)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Prior Code, § 337.22)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
(Prior Code, § 337.28)
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261) (Prior Code, § 337.30)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 339.06)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 339.11)
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
§ 74.40 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle with an internal combustion
engine unless the carburetion system of the vehicle is protected with an air
filter, a flame arresting device or any other accepted method of protection
that is adequate for this purpose. If the original device or system is
replaced, it shall be replaced with one that is equal to or better than the
original equipment.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person doing automotive repair work
on a motor vehicle that necessitates this device being removed while the work
is performed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 337.25)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 339.01)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)    
(Prior Code, § 337.23)
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 339.08)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
(Prior Code, § 339.07)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3                      450
3.5                    450
4                      500
5                      600
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load- bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor- semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo- carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 339.03)
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 339.05)
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
§ 74.62 USE OF LOCAL STREETS; LOCAL PERMIT AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
74.57 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (B)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the State
Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the State Director of Transportation shall be required for movement upon
state routes as provided in §
74.50.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $10, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$25 per hour per officer. The charge can be prorated into 15-minute increments.
      (4)   Signs shall be posted to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. Such signs shall be in accordance with the standards for
traffic control devices of the State Department of Transportation. No driver
shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by division
(C) of this section.
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 339.02)
§ 74.63 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter shall be required, upon
request by a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route
they are following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of
delivery or removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods
being removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue such route.
(Prior Code, § 339.04)
§ 74.64 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (A)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless such vehicle
is so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing
the vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the
same.
   (B)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by §
74.10.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 339.09)
§ 74.65 LOAD LIMIT OF 10,000 POUNDS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   At no time shall a person operate a through truck in excess of 10,000
pounds on Water Street, South Street or Middle Street, or any alleys within the
village excluding emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Any vehicle in excess of the weight limit for those streets may make a
written request to Council for use of those streets for a limited purpose and
time. Council will vote to approve the request.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of this section and its amendments is governed
by the state statutes, and may include fines, towing and impoundment of the
vehicle as set forth by statute.
   (D)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to post signage in accordance with the
terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 339.12) (Ord. 03-25(A), passed 7-15-2014)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.08   Toy vehicles on streets
   
75.09   Reckless operation of bicycles; control, course and speed
   
75.10   Parking of bicycle
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) (Prior Code, § 373.01)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Prior Code, § 373.10)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Prior Code, § 373.02)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Prior Code, § 373.03)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Prior Code, §§ 373.04, 373.07)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
(Prior Code, § 373.05)
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
(Prior Code, § 373.06)
§ 75.08 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 311.03)
§ 75.09 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle:
      (1)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
      (2)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such
bicycle;
      (3)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
      (4)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
75.04(D);
      (5)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 373.08)
§ 75.10 PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner so as
to unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a roadway so as to unduly
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 373.09)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all- terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The
term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01) (Prior Code, § 375.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
(Prior Code, § 375.02)
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40) (Prior Code, § 375.03)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41) (Prior Code, § 375.04)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44) (Prior Code, § 375.05)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46) (Prior Code, § 375.07)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02) (Prior Code, § 375.06)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66) (Prior Code, § 375.08)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Manner of angle parking
   
76.14   North Side of Main Street a loading zone
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Prior Code, § 351.12)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) (Prior Code, § 351.07)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Prior Code, § 351.01)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Prior Code, § 351.03)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one- way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Prior Code, § 351.04)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681) (Prior Code, § 351.13)
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 351.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 351.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 351.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 351.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 351.02)
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 76.13 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 351.05)
§ 76.14 NORTH SIDE OF MAIN STREET A LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   The north side of Main Street between Middle Street and Water Street
shall be a loading zone at all times.
   (B)   No vehicle or person shall be permitted to use this portion of Main
Street for any other purpose, unless under the direction of law enforcement,
public emergency or events approved by Council.
   (C)   Violation of the provisions of this section is punishable under the
state statutes, including, but not restricted to, fines, towing and impoundment
of vehicles as provided by the statute.
(Prior Code, § 351.14) (Ord. 03-23(A), passed 7-15-2014)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
      
92.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES, SHRUBBERY AND WEEDS
      
95.   PARKS
      
96.   FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
Offenses Relating to Animals
   
90.20   Abandoning animals
   
90.21   Injuring animals
   
90.22   Poisoning animals
   
90.23   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.24   Animal fights
   
90.25   Trapshooting
   
90.26   Loud dog
   
90.27   Dog tags
   
90.28   Nuisance, dangerous and vicious dog defined; transfer of ownership
certificate; form stating dog’s prior behavior
   
90.29   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.30   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.31   Unlawful tag
   
90.32   Assistance dogs with blind, deaf or hearing impaired person, or person
with a mobility impairment, or trainer
   
90.33   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.34   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; regulation of sale and display
   
90.35   Jacklighting prohibited
   
90.36   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.37   Sexual conduct with an animal
   
90.38   Dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes
   
90.39   Removal of Canada geese
   
90.40   Feeding ducks prohibited
   
90.41   Horses prohibited on the canal lands
   
90.42   Unlawful feeding sites for feral/domestic cats, stray/domestic dogs,
including all wildlife on public and unauthorized properties
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting police dog, horse or assistance dog, see §
136.15
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Law enforcement canine registration, see R.C. § 955.012
   Nuisance wild animal trapping, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 et seq.
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) above
who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of division (A)(1)
above is liable for all damages resulting from injury, death, or loss to person
or property caused by the animal in any of the places specified in division (A)
(1) above or upon the premises of another without reference to the fence that
may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1)
above in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) above is prima
facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division (A)(3) above that
the owner or keeper of the animal negligently permitted the animal to run at
large in violation of division (A)(1) above.
(R.C. § 951.10)
(Prior Code, § 505.01)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer
of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision or secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog
shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure that has a top; or
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) above involving the same dog and no owner,
keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) below, affix a tag that identifies the dog
as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the dog wears the
collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined;
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property; or
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) below that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog; and
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) above that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation obtained,
prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver form that
complies with division (B)(7) above and that attests that the dog is not a
dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person; and
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property; and
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. below and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the original
county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county; and
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22) (Prior Code, § 505.14)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog shall
conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance dog,
dangerous dog or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable; and
         (b)   That the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’
      (3)   If the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog. The owner, keeper or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper or harborer or an attorney
representing the owner, keeper or harborer, may order that the dog designated
as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog be held in the possession of
the owner, keeper or harborer until the court makes a final determination under
this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as applicable. Until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal, the
dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of
division (B)(4) above that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of whether the
dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather than a
dangerous dog. The owner, keeper or harborer of the dog shall not be required
to comply with any other requirements established in this code or the state
statutes that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) above apply with respect to the dog and
the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog,
and §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper or harborer in that manner. As part of
the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper or harborer to obtain the
liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) above in an amount
described in division (D)(4)(b) below.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) above or commits a violation
of division (B)(3) above that involves a dog that is not a nuisance dog,
dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or more than
$100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be fined not less
than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a)
above , if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) above or a
violation of division (B)(3) above that involves a dog that is not a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog or vicious dog, the court may order the offender to
personally supervise the dog that the offender owns, keeps or harbors, to cause
that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) above that
involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense
and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense involving
the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading guilty to a third
violation of division (B)(3) above involving the same dog, the court shall
require the offender to register the involved dog as a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a)
above, if a violation of division (B)(3) above involves a nuisance dog, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the nuisance dog that the
offender owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) above that involves
a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the court may order the
offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the offender owns,
keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain liability insurance
pursuant to division (B)(5) above. The court, in the alternative, may order the
dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county
dog warden or the county humane society at the owner’s expense. With respect to
a violation of division (B)(3) above that involves a dangerous dog, until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a
violation of that division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) above or at
the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) above that
involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden or the county humane society at the owner’s expense; or
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. above, the court shall issue an order that specifies
that §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) above apply with respect to the dog and
the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog
and that §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of
the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability insurance
required under division (B)(5)(a) above in an amount, exclusive of interest and
costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division
(B)(3) above and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined
or restrained in accordance with the provisions described in this division (B)
(4) above or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b) or (B)(6)(c) above
is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b) or
(B)(6)(c) above and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be
confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(4)
above or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c) or (B)(5)(d) above
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(6) above, the county dog warden shall give
written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county dog
warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
above does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the animal, the dog
is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the disposition of the
dog unless the court issues an order that specifies otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(6) above, the county dog
warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of the
confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) above is less than the actual cost of
confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) above is greater than that actual
cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the security
provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the court’s
determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02 CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03 UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04 FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each animal, $5; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05 RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF
MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner, keeper
or harborer or in a pound, kennel or other suitable place, at the expense of
the owner, keeper or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted to leave the
premises of its owner, keeper or harborer if it is under leash or under the
control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be considered an
emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
for a first offense; for each subsequent offense such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 505.10)
§ 90.06 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (A)(3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing or injury. If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
OFFENSES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 90.20 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each
subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
(Prior Code, § 505.04)
§ 90.21 INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more, whoever
violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
(Prior Code, § 505.05)
§ 90.22 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
(Prior Code, § 505.06)
§ 90.23 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division (A) does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty therefor.
Division (A) above does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) above shall be paid
to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if
there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the
General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         ANIMAL RESCUE FOR DOGS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. The term does not include livestock or any
wild animal.
         CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. An animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel, or a
training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. The “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966”, Pub.
L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended by the
“Animal Welfare Act of 1970”, Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970), the
“Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976”, Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985”, Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep, goats and
other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas; captive white-
tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained domestically for
food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity; or
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. An establishment operating for profit that keeps,
houses and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in return for a
fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against
a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement; or
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
or
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected that
the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable pain
or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), (D)(6) and (D)(7) above
do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes; provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals; or
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the state statutes that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division (D), the county humane society
shall use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for
humane society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training
for humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division (E), the proceeds from the sale
first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of
the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) or (D)(5) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree
on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(7) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) above to forfeit to an impounding agency,
as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion animals in that
person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or place limitations on
the person’s ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified
or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of divisions (A) or (D) above to reimburse an impounding agency
for the reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care of a
companion animal that the agency impounded as a result of the investigation or
prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not otherwise paid
under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) above has a mental or emotional
disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a community
control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that the offender
undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall order the
offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
(Prior Code, §§ 505.07, 505.071)
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 90.24 ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against
another; or
      (2)   Use, train or possess any animal for seizing, detaining or
maltreating a domestic animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Be employed at cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal
against another; or
      (2)   Do any of the following regarding an event involving cockfighting,
bearbaiting or pitting an animal against another:
         (a)   Wager money or anything else of value on the results of the
event;
         (b)   Pay money or give anything else of value in exchange for
admission to or being present at the event;
         (c)   Receive money or anything else of value in exchange for the
admission of another person to the event or for another person to be present at
the event;
         (d)   Use, possess or permit or cause to be present at the event any
device or substance intended to enhance an animal’s ability to fight or to
inflict injury on another animal; or
         (e)   Permit or cause a minor to be present at the event if any person
present at or involved with the event is conducting any of the activities
described in division (B)(1), (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c) or (B)(2)(d)
above.
   (C)   A person who knowingly witnesses cockfighting, bearbaiting or an event
in which one animal is pitted against another when a violation of division (B)
above is occurring at the cockfighting, bearbaiting or event is an aider and
abettor and has committed a violation of this division (C).
(R.C. § 959.15)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) above is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 959.99(C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.25 TRAPSHOOTING.
   (A)   Live birds or fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(R.C. § 959.17)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 90.26 LOUD DOG.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to owners, operators or employees of
licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels or licensed animal boarding
establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an assistance dog.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 505.09)
§ 90.27 DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
(Prior Code, §§ 505.02, 505.03)
§ 90.28 NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOG DEFINED; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
CERTIFICATE; FORM STATING DOG’S PRIOR BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog; or
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      NUISANCE DOG.
         (a)   Subject to division (b) of this definition, NUISANCE DOG means a
dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper or
harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person.
         (b)   NUISANCE DOG does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist one or
more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         (c)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement; or
         (d)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         (b)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog acts without provocation when it was not
teased, tormented or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or the
defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who
was not using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
(Prior Code, § 505.001)
   (B)   Upon the transfer of ownership of any dog, the seller of the dog shall
give the buyer a transfer of ownership certificate that shall be signed by the
seller. The certificate shall contain the registration number of the dog, the
name of the seller and a brief description of the dog. Blank forms of the
certificate may be obtained from the County Auditor. A transfer of ownership
shall be recorded by the Auditor upon presentation of a transfer of ownership
certificate that is signed by the former owner of a dog and that is accompanied
by a fee of $5.
   (C)   Prior to the transfer of ownership or possession of any dog, upon the
buyer’s or other transferee’s request, the seller or other transferor of the
dog shall give to the person a written notice relative to the behavior and
propensities of the dog.
   (D)   Within ten days after the transfer of ownership or possession of any
dog, if the seller or transferor of the dog has knowledge that the dog is a
dangerous dog, the seller or other transferor shall give to the buyer or
transferee, the Board of Health for the district in which the buyer or other
transferee resides, and the dog warden of the county in which the buyer or
other transferee resides a completed copy of a written form on which the seller
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the buyer or other transferee of the dog;
      (2)   The age, sex, color, breed and current registration number of the
dog;
      (3)   In addition, the seller shall answer the following questions which
shall be specifically stated on the form as follows:
            Has the dog ever chased or attempted to attack or bite a person? If
yes, describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
            Has the dog ever bitten a person? If yes, describe the incident(s)
in which the behavior occurred.
            Has the dog ever seriously injured or killed a person? If yes,
describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.
      (4)   The dog warden of the county in which the seller resides furnishes
the form to the seller at no cost.
   (E)   No seller or other transferor of a dog shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of divisions (B) to (D) above.
(R.C. § 955.11)
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) above because failure to comply
with division (B) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) above because of a failure to comply
with division (C) or (D) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first
offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 955.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 505.08)
§ 90.29 FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.30 HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.31 UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.32 ASSISTANCE DOG WITH BLIND, DEAF OR HEARING IMPAIRED PERSON, OR PERSON
WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT, OR TRAINER.
   (A)   When a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired, a person with a
mobility impairment or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an
assistance dog, the person or trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance;
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier; and
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a person who is blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, a person who has a mobility impairment, or a trainer of an assistance
dog when the person or trainer, as applicable, is accompanied by an assistance
dog of any of the advantages, facilities or privileges provided in division (A)
above, and no person shall charge the person or trainer a fee or charge for the
dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. A dog that has been trained by a nonprofit or for-profit
special agency and that is one of the following:
         (a)   A guide dog;
         (b)   A hearing dog; or
         (c)   A service dog.
      BLIND. Either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
or
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG. A dog that has been trained or is in training to assist a
blind person.
      HEARING DOG. A dog that has been trained or is in training to assist a
deaf or hearing-impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION.
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the State Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological impairment regardless of its cause, nature or extent
that renders the person unable to move about without the aid of crutches, a
wheelchair or any other form of support, or that limits the person’s functional
ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise or perform any related function.
The phrase includes a person with a neurological or psychological disability
that limits the person’s functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit,
rise or perform any related function. The phrase also includes a person with a
seizure disorder and a person who is diagnosed with autism.
      SERVICE DOG. A dog that has been trained or is in training to assist a
person with a mobility impairment.
(R.C. §§ 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting assistance dog, see §
136.15
§ 90.33 RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier, provided that neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness or death results from the birth of
such puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.34 COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; REGULATION OF SALE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of
age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of
less than three. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 505.12)
§ 90.35 JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland
or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(R.C. § 1533.161)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(B))
§ 90.36 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age; or
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) above shall microchip for permanent
identification any dog owned, possessed by or in the custody of the person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) above does not apply to any person who is confined
in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) above does not apply to any person with respect to any
dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of or resided in a residence
with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.37 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. A nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian, either dead or
alive.
      OFFENSE. A violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of R.C.
§ 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Either of the following committed for the purpose of
sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other; or
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal, anal or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division (D), the proceeds from the sale
first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of
the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 90.38 DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS AND RESTRICTED SNAKES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL and RESTRICTED
SNAKE have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 935.01.
   (B)   (1)   Except for a restricted snake specified in R.C. § 935.01(L)(1),
no person shall sell or offer for sale at auction a dangerous wild animal or
restricted snake.
      (2)   Except for a microchip removed for purposes of a medical emergency
by a veterinarian that is qualified to provide veterinary care to the dangerous
wild animal, no person shall knowingly remove a microchip that is implanted in
a dangerous wild animal as required in R.C. § 935.04.
      (3)   (a)   No person that possesses a dangerous wild animal or
restricted snake shall fail to post and display any of the following:
            1.   On each cage in which a dangerous wild animal is confined,
signs warning the public that a dangerous wild animal is confined in the cage;
            2.   At each entrance to the property where a dangerous wild animal
is confined, a sign warning the public that a dangerous wild animal is on the
property;
            3.   On each container in which a restricted snake is confined, a
sign warning the public that a restricted snake is in the container;
            4.   At the main entrance to each structure where a restricted
snake is confined, a sign warning the public that a restricted snake is in the
structure; or
            5.   On a vehicle that is used to transport a dangerous wild animal
or restricted snake, a sign warning that a dangerous wild animal or restricted
snake, as applicable, is in the vehicle.
         (b)   The signs shall comply with standards established in rules
adopted by the State Director of Agriculture.
      (4)   No person shall allow a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake
to roam off the property where it is confined.
      (5)   No person shall remove any teeth or claws from a dangerous wild
animal or restricted snake, as applicable, unless determined to be medically
necessary by a veterinarian.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree on the first offense. On a second or subsequent offense, such person is
guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 505.13) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. §§ 935.18 and 935.99 
§ 90.39 REMOVAL OF CANADA GEESE.
   Anyone desiring to discharge firearms within the village for the purpose of
ridding property of Canada geese may do so upon application to the Mayor under
the following conditions:
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant a permit for the purpose of
discharging firearms for the purpose of ridding property of Canada geese;
   (B)   Firearms may only be discharged on properties ten acres or larger
unless otherwise approved by the Mayor;
   (C)   The applicant shall present a valid hunting license upon making
application, unless otherwise not required to do so by state law;
   (D)   The applicant agrees to abide by the laws of the United States of
America, the state and the village; and
   (E)   All permits granted by the Mayor shall expire the following August 31.
(Prior Code, § 505.15) (Ord. 01-17, passed 11-6-2001)
§ 90.40 FEEDING DUCKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall feed any ducks or Canada geese in Elizabeth Park in
the village.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 505.16) (Ord. 01-18, passed 11-6-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 HORSES PROHIBITED ON THE CANAL LANDS.
   (A)   No person shall permit horses of any kind to travel on or otherwise be
on the canal lands of the village or use the canal path along the canal.
   (B)   The village shall make arrangements for signs to be posted at the
entrances to the canal path advising the public that no horses are permitted on
said path.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 505.17) (Ord. 00-27, passed 11-7-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 UNLAWFUL FEEDING SITES FOR FERAL/DOMESTIC CATS, STRAY/DOMESTIC DOGS,
INCLUDING ALL WILDLIFE ON PUBLIC AND UNAUTHORIZED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Public property. Feeding sites for feral/domestic cats, feral/domestic
cat colony, stray/domestic dogs, including all wildlife, shall not be located
on any public property owned by the village, including, but not limited to,
alleys (paper and actual), roads and road rights-of-way, sidewalks, and/or
parks.
   (B)   Private property. Feeding sites for feral/domestic cats, feral/
domestic cat colony, stray/domestic dogs, including all wildlife, may not be
located on the property of any person or business without the approval of the
respective property and business owners, including the governing body of a
private association in the case of condominiums and the landlord in the case of
apartment complexes.
   (C)   Enforcement. The provisions of §
132.18(G) apply hereunder.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully keeping a
feeding site for feral cats/domestic, a feral/domestic cat colony, stray/
domestic dogs, including all wildlife and a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the offender persists in unlawfully keeping a feeding site for
feral/domestic cats, a feral/domestic cat colony, stray/domestic dogs,
including all wildlife after reasonable warning or request to desist, said
person or entity is guilty of persistently keeping a feeding site of feral cats
and/or cat colonies and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 505.18) (Ord. O-20-05, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 505.99)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
   
91.01   Abandoned refrigerators
   
91.02   Barriers around excavations
   
91.03   Warning lights
   
91.04   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.05   Power of the municipality to fill or drain land
   
91.06   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean of ice and snow
   
91.07   Fences
   
91.08   Discarding litter prohibited
   
91.09   Maintaining certain nuisances
   
91.10   Compost piles
   
91.11   Garbage and rubbish collection and disposal
Statutory reference:
   Excavation liability, see R.C. §§ 723.49 et seq.
   Flagpole installation in sidewalk, see R.C. § 723.012
   Nuisances, see R.C. Ch. 3767
   Removal of noxious weeds or litter, see R.C. § 731.51 et seq.
§ 91.01 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 521.01)
§ 91.02 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 521.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night shall install and maintain at least
two illuminated warning lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved shall exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for
each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 521.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land bordering on any street
or sidewalk shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 521.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Placing injurious materials and litter upon streets or highways prohibited,
see §
72.122
§ 91.05 POWER OF THE MUNICIPALITY TO FILL OR DRAIN LAND.
   (A)   The municipality may fill or drain any lot or land within its limits
on which water at any time becomes stagnant, remove all putrid substances from
any lot, and remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains or private
property, laid in any natural watercourse, creek, brook or branch, which
obstruct the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in a way prejudicial to the health, comfort, or convenience of any of
the citizens of the neighborhood. If such culverts or drains are of
insufficient capacity, the municipality may make them of such capacity as
reasonable to accommodate the flow of such water at all times.
   (B)   The Legislative Authority may, by resolution, direct the owner to fill
or drain such lot, remove such putrid substance or other obstructions, and if
necessary, enlarge such culverts or covered drains to meet the requirements
thereof.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution, or after a publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16, for two consecutive weeks, the owner, or the owner’s
agent or attorney, shall comply with the directions of the resolution within
the time therein specified.
   (D)   In case of the failure or refusal of such owner to comply with the
resolution, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the
municipality, and the amount of money so expended shall be recovered from the
owner before any court of competent jurisdiction. This expense from the time of
the adoption of the resolution shall be a lien on such lot, which may be
enforced by suit in the Court of Common Pleas, and like proceedings may be had
as directed in relation to the improvement of streets.
   (E)   The officers connected with the Health Department of the municipality
shall see that this section is strictly and promptly enforced.
(R.C. § 715.47) (Prior Code, § 521.04)
§ 91.06 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN OF ICE AND SNOW.
   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or gutter
shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free from
snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and ice
has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011) (Prior Code, § 521.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (B) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than three strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 72 inches from the ground.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 521.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 DISCARDING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by the
person, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the person deposits the
litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being carried away
by the elements; or
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by the person, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom the person
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle; or
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle; or
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers and other
materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be
generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter receptacle
by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) above, PUBLIC PROPERTY includes any
private property open to the public for the conduct of business, the provision
of a service or upon the payment of a fee but does not include any private
property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) above, CASUAL PASSERBY means a person
who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as the person’s
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. A bag, can, cup, food or beverage service item,
container, keg, bottle or other packaging to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable;
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated or
multilayered substrates; or
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting or protecting
merchandise, food or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail food
establishment, grocery or any other type of retail, manufacturing or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard or place.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division (F), require a person who
violates this section to remove litter from any public or private property or
in or on waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 521.08)
§ 91.09 MAINTAINING CERTAIN NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 521.09)
§ 91.10 COMPOST PILES.
   (A)   Compliance required. No property owner or person lawfully in charge of
the premises shall maintain or cause to be maintained a compost pile within the
village limits, except such compost pile complies with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Definition. As used in this section, COMPOST PILE means any outdoor
pile of organic waste matter permitted to decompose.
   (C)   Ingredients. A compost pile may consist of combinations of leaves,
grass clippings, herbivore animal manure, garden plants and vegetable
trimmings, fruit and vegetable material, nitrogenous based chemicals or
fertilizers and water. There shall not be permitted the addition of any animal
manure, fruit or vegetable substances other than those specified herein, cooked
kitchen waste, grease, meat, bones and fats to any compost pile in the village.
   (D)   Formation. A compost pile shall be started at ground level and shall
be layered in alternate layers of six to 12 inches of leaves, grass clippings
or plant residues, second layer of two to three inches of vegetable materials
or herbivore manure, third layer of nitrogen-based chemicals or fertilizers and
a fourth layer of one to two inches of topsoil, with the repetition of the
layers until the pile has reached five feet above ground level. The compost
pile is to be covered with soil at the end of the day. No compost pile in the
village shall exceed five feet in height above ground level.
   (E)   Enclosure. All compost piles shall be within an enclosure to conceal
visibility. The compost pile shall be constructed with suitable screens,
materials or enclosures to prevent rodents and other vectors from entering or
existing the enclosure.
   (F)   Nauseous odors. Compost piles shall be operated in a manner so as to
not cause offensive or nauseous odors.
   (G)   Rodent and insect control. The property owner or person lawfully in
charge of the premises shall have the sole responsibility for the control and
elimination of rodents and insects which might be attracted to the area.
   (H)   Location. Any compost pile must not be visible from any street or
sidewalk and shall be no less than ten feet from any building line or 15 feet
from an inhabited dwelling.
   (I)   Removal. Any compost pile in the village which is found to be in
violation of the regulations contained in this chapter by the village, acting
through properly authorized employees of the village, shall be removed
completely within seven days after receipt of written notice from the village
to the property owner or person lawfully in possession of the property upon
which the compost pile is located. Failure to remove a compost pile pursuant to
a notice given in this section shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (J)   Non-compliance; remedy of village.
      (1)   If such property owner or other person lawfully in charge of the
premises upon which the compost pile is located neglects or refuses to obey
such notice, the Chief of Police or a properly authorized employee or agent of
the village, is authorized to remove the compost pile at the expense of such
owner or other person having charge thereof.
      (2)   All expenses incurred by removing and destroying the compost pile,
together with an administrative charge of $50 for each notice processed, shall
be reported to the Fiscal Officer, who shall mail a statement of the amount
thereof to the owner or other person in charge of the land. If, after 30 days,
such amount remains unpaid, the Fiscal Officer shall certify the total amount
of the expenses, the name of the owner of the land and a sufficient description
of the premises to the County Auditor, to be entered on the tax duplicate, to
be a lien on the land from the date of entry and to be collected as other taxes
and assessments and returned to the village, pursuant to R.C. § 731.54. This
remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided in § 10.99.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a fourth degree
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 521.11) (Ord. 93-06, passed 3-16-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARDBOARD. Paper board and corrugated material.
      COMPOSTING. The controlled biological decomposition of yard and garden
wastes under aerobic conditions.
      CURBSIDE. Close to the traveled portion of the street or roadway, but in
such a manner as to avoid interference with the safe and free flow of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      CURBSIDE RECYCLING CONTAINER. A storage unit in which recyclable
materials are placed for collection.
      GARBAGE. The matter, substance or waste resulting from the growing,
handling, storage, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food, including
fat and bones, fowl, fish, fruits and vegetables.
      GLASS FOOD AND BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any glass bottle or jar used to
package food or beverage products.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those substances which, singularly or in combination,
pose a significant present or potential threat or hazard to human health or to
the environment and require special handling, processing or disposal because
they may be flammable, explosive, reactive, corrosive, toxic, carcinogenic,
poisonous or persistent in nature, potentially lethal, an irritant or a strong
sensitizer. HAZARDOUS WASTE may not be disposed of as a refuse, but must be
taken to a proper authority that may dispose of or recycle such material.
      HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any hazardous materials contained in commonly
used household products often found in residences. Common items are motor oil,
car batteries, paint and paint thinners and the like.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid or gaseous by-products or commercial,
manufacturing or service activities which must be recycled or disposed of in
accordance with commercial regulations.
      JUNK. Items that have fallen into disuse or disrepair.
      MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING. The grouping together under a common roof or
two or three residential units.
      NEWSPAPER. Used or discarded newsprint, not including glossy inserts.
      NON-SOURCE-SEPARATED. Recyclable materials that are separated from refuse
at the recycling facility.
      OFFICE PAPER. Used computer forms, used copier paper, used typing paper,
used graphic paper and stationery.
      PLASTIC CONTAINER. Only PET/HDPE number 1 or 2 bottles, jugs or other
containers.
      RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Cardboard, glass food and beverage containers,
newspaper, office paper and PET/HDPE plastic containers.
      RECYCLE FACILITY. A facility for the collection, sorting, processing,
transfer or sale of recyclable materials for the purpose of reclaiming material
therefrom.
      RECYCLE RATE. The percentage of all solid waste collected, either
recyclable material or yard waste.
      REFUSE. All waste or offal of fish, fowl and fruit, vegetable, and animal
matter resulting from the preparation of food for human consumption, leaves,
lawn and hedge trimmings, paper, magazines, barrels, boxes, baskets, discarded
rags, mattresses, furniture, shoe leather, carpets, scrap metals, broken dishes
and glassware, tin cans and other discarded household materials of a similar
nature. REFUSE shall not include such material as broken or whole bricks or
cement, wood ashes, stone, gravel, cinders, asphalt, earth or large household
appliances, such as stoves, refrigerators and the like.
      RESIDENTIAL. Single-family and multiple-family dwellings.
      RESIDENTIAL UNIT. The place of abode of a person or persons living
separately or together as a family.
      RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible or
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
      SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plans prepared and implemented by the
Mayor in compliance with State House Bill No. 592, Ohio EPA Oct. 2023 HB 592
fact sheet 1096 and in accordance with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(OEPA) regulations.
      SOURCE-SEPARATED. Sorting of recyclables from single- and multiple-family
residences into a recycling container, separate from refuse, for the refuse
hauler pick-up.
      YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, weeds, brush and other vegetation.
   (B)   Recycling.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2006, and continuing thereafter, curbside
recycling shall be mandatory. Each refuse license holder shall implement a
curbside collection of recyclables and yard waste for its residential
customers. This program shall be on file and approved by the Mayor and shall
include bi-monthly curbside collection of recyclable materials, disposal of
recyclable materials through a bona fide recycling facility, and collection of
yard waste and disposal thereof through a bona fide composting facility. For
good cause shown, the Mayor may grant an extension of up to 60 days for
implementation of said program.
      (2)   A source-separated curbside collection of recyclables is preferred.
However, a non-source-separated curbside collection of recyclables may be
permitted if the facility meets OEPA guidelines for removal of recyclable
materials.
      (3)   Items placed for curbside pick-up may only be picked up by licensed
trash haulers.
   (C)   Collection, permit required; indemnification; security; fees.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting or removing
recyclables, refuse or waste materials of any kind within the village and upon
its streets without first obtaining an annual permit therefor from the Mayor
and without first agreeing to comply with the requirements of this section. The
village shall have full power and authority to enter into an exclusive
agreement with a waste hauler to be the sole, exclusive company for the
collection and removal of residential recyclables, refuse and waste materials
in the village. Upon execution of an exclusive agreement with a waste hauler by
the village, the existence of that agreement shall be proper basis, in the sole
discretion of the village, to deny a permit to any other waste hauler applying
for a permit under this section.
      (2)   Whoever desires a permit to engage in any business as described in
division(C)(1) above shall make written application therefore at the Village
Hall. The written application must be made on the form provided, correctly
stating or containing the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The applicant’s business name, address and telephone number;
         (c)   The make, model, year and current registration licenses(s) of
motor vehicle(s) used in the business;
         (d)   The type(s) of materials to be collected;
         (e)   The type(s) of service, commercial or residential;
         (f)   A list of all drivers and drivers’ license numbers (CDL);
         (g)   The annual vehicle safety inspection certificate for each motor
vehicle used in the business; and
         (h)   The names of the recycle, compost, disposal and other facilities
used by refuse hauler.
      (3)   The haulers shall indemnify and save harmless the village and all
of its executives, representatives, officers, agents and employees.
   (D)   Impounding of vehicles for non-compliance; revocation of permit. Any
motor vehicle licensed in accordance with the requirements of this section and
subsequently found by the police authority not to be in compliance with this
chapter may be impounded. Upon the licensee’s failure to comply after being so
ordered, and upon recommendation of the policy authority, the Mayor may revoke
the licensee’s permit.
   (E)   Prevention of spillage. No permit shall be issued for any motor
vehicle not enclosed or equipped with an adequate covering, a tarpaulin or
other material suitable for serving as an effective cover to prevent materials
collected therein from blowing from or falling off of the motor vehicle, or for
any motor vehicle whose bed or bode construction or containers are not properly
constructed to prevent dropping or leading of the materials collected therein.
   (F)   Quarterly reports.
      (1)   Each permit holder must complete a village quarterly report form
and file it with the Mayor. The report form must be submitted by April 15, July
15, October 15 and January 15 for the preceding quarter.
      (2)   The report will contain the number of units serviced within the
village, the weight in tons of refuse collected within the village, the weight
in tons of recyclables collected within the village and the weight in tons of
yard waste collected within the village, as well as the name of the facilities
to which the materials were taken.
      (3)   Permit holders who do not file their reports pursuant to division
(F)(1) above shall be fined $20 per day for each day not in compliance.
   (G)   Transport. Industrial, commercial or individual producers of refuse
may transport such refuse through the streets of the village; provided that the
conveying of such refuse is made in trucks or vehicles so constructed as to
prevent the leakage or scattering of the contents thereof; and provided,
further, that the ultimate disposal of said refuse is made without violating
any other provision of this section.
   (H)   Disposal restrictions. No person shall, within the limits of the
village, throw any refuse upon the ground or bury the same upon any premises,
public or private, or burn the same in any place; provided, however, that this
section shall not prevent the use of mechanical disposal devices.
   (I)   Accumulation of waste and junk on private property. No person shall
accumulate or permit the accumulation of one or more items of waste or one or
more items of machinery, furniture or household appliances, which have fallen
into disuse or disrepair, for more than ten days on private property in any
area which is visible from any other private property or from any public
property.
   (J)   Exemption of village. The village is expressly exempted from the
provisions of this section pertaining to refuse collection permits or any other
provision of this chapter which might be construed as requiring the village to
pay any fee or to obtain any permit.
   (K)   Authority of Mayor to make rules and set fees. With the approval of
Council, the Mayor has authority to make rules and regulations and set permit
fees, not inconsistent herewith, pertaining to the collection and disposal of
solid waste and recyclables, as deemed advisable.
   (L)   Enforcement. Any hauler or other person in non-compliance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be issued a letter by the Mayor, with a copy
to the Village Solicitor. If the non-compliance continues, the matter shall be
referred to the Village Solicitor for enforcement.
   (M)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for
which no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for
the first offense and shall be fined not more than $100. For a second offense,
such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined
not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For a third or
subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 521.12) (Ord. 94-20, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. O-5-23, passed 9-20-
2005)
CHAPTER 92: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
92.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
92.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
92.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
92.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
92.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
92.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
92.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
92.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
92.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
92.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
92.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
92.14   Posting of card
   
92.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
92.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
92.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
92.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
92.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
92.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
92.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
92.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
92.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
92.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
92.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
92.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
92.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
92.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
92.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.02
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws;
    suspension; procedures, see R.C. § 4510.33
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the state statutes, or any rules
adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02; or
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or non-refrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary or patented. The terms
include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural products
that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume. The
beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink such as root
beer, birch beer or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails, highballs
and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of whiskey,
neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. A sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a combination
thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume;
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture;
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed;
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents; and
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432 and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244) (Prior Code, § 529.01)
§ 92.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of non-beverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, four and one-half liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in
any 30-day period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the
resident or member of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the
spirituous liquor, wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another
state or an insular possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) above, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course; and
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 92.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom;
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking and
replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet;
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor;
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) below;
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to this division (A)(2) shall post on the controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed from the
premises.
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) above; and
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(C)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) above shall provide a registered guest with the opportunity to
refuse to accept a key, magnetic card or other similar device necessary to
obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept such key,
magnetic card or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess any charges
on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) below, all of the
following apply to the handling, serving and selling of beer and intoxicating
liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
            1.   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar;
            2.   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar; and
            3.   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale; or
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any 24-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting samples free of
charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is 21 years of age
or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the premises of the
permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs of providing
tasting samples authorized under this division(A)(4).
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(4):
            TASTING SAMPLE. One of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine; or
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. A person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-2x, D-
3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j,
D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6 or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A), no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark, designation
or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer, distributor, place
of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or intoxicating liquor may
be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the interior or in the show
windows of any licensed premises, if the particular brand or type of product so
advertised is actually available for sale on the premises at the time of that
display. The Liquor Control Commission shall determine by rule the size and
character of those signs, illustrations or advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine or
mixed beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine or mixed
beverages for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) above not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C.
§§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) above or R.C. § 4301.22
(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
(Prior Code, § 529.03)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 92.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization described under § 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code and exempt from federal income taxation under §
501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         FUNDRAISER. A raffle, silent auction or event where a door prize is
awarded.
         POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A political organization defined under § 527
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         RAFFLE. A raffle conducted in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915.
         SILENT AUCTION. A method of submitting bids in writing by one or more
persons and, after a review of all the bids received, personal property is
awarded to the highest and most responsive bidder.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the State Division of Liquor
Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or
intoxicating liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division
authorized to manufacture such beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture
any beer or intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous
liquor.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell such beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol,
shall sell, keep or possess beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to
purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at retail.
      (4)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of such
intoxicating liquor unless the same has been purchased with the special consent
of the Division. The Division shall revoke the permit of any person convicted
of a violation of division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   Division (B)(3) above does not apply to either of the following:
         (a)   The sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage; or
         (b)   Beer and intoxicating liquor that is given away if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The beer or intoxicating liquor is given away by a charitable
or political organization to a participant in a fundraiser;
            2.   Any beer, wine, or mixed beverages given away via the
fundraiser is purchased from a person issued a permit under R.C. Chapter 4303;
            3.   Any spirituous liquor given away via the fundraiser is
purchased from an agency store located in this state;
            4.   Regarding any spirituous liquor donated to the charitable or
political organization for purposes of the fundraiser, the donor is not an
agency store located in this state and submits to the charitable or political
organization receipts showing that the donor purchased the spirituous liquor
from an agency store located in this state; and
            5.   The charitable or political organization submits purchase
receipts for the spirituous liquor given away via a fundraiser to the Division
of Liquor Control as proof that the spirituous liquor was purchased from an
agency store located in this state. The charitable or political organization
shall submit the receipts in accordance with procedures that the Division shall
establish.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 529.05)
§ 92.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) below, in a state liquor
store;
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (C) or (J) below, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while operating or
being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking; or
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while being in or
on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or private
property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8 or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1 or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171; or
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) above:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORM- ANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts center
that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
above if the person with supervision and control over the performance grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) above:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length;
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land;
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events; and
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2 or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area; and
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   This division (C)(7) does not authorize a person to do either of
the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere; or
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) below.
         (c)   As used in this division (C)(7), “D class permit holder” does
not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises; and
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the Division of Liquor Control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(8), MARKET means a market, for
which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with; and
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) above is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or, if the
motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in an area
not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily accessible by
the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) below, this section does not apply to a person who, pursuant to
a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle when
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking;
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine; and
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle;
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers;
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers;
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes; and
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in this division (G), MARKET means an establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet; and
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 529.07)
§ 92.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 529.021)
§ 92.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) above that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G)
above.
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of division
(B) above may order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at
a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the
time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 529.06)
§ 92.10 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of misdemeanor of
the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring within a
period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 92.11 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 529.021)
§ 92.12 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of division (A) above,
the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a
false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not more than
$1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six
months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non-resident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division (B), the court also may impose
a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or non-resident operating privilege from the range specified
in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial
remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in
lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver’s license or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform
a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
(Prior Code, § 529.021)
§ 92.13 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division (B) that are committed by a
lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s
acts or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person; or
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) above
in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the child into a
diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in abeyance
pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is ineligible
to enter into a diversion program under this division (E) if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division (E). If the child
completes the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court
shall dismiss the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed
under R.C. §§ 2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily
complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) above, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense, except that a
person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the person previously
has been diverted pursuant to this division (E)(2). If the person completes the
diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the
complaint and order the record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.33. If the
person fails to satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall
proceed with the complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of a
minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §§
4301.63, 4301.633 or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) above or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C), (D) or (F) above is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (E)(1) above was
under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred
while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the
court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall
suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license for a period of not less than six months and not more than one year. If
the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued
a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor,
shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in addition to the
fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
(Prior Code, § 529.02)
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 92.14 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
         If you are under the age of 21
            Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for,
share the cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000,
or imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
         If you are under the age of 18
            Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for,
share the cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of
beer or wine that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per
cent of alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as
to the name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to
$250 or to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING
         If you are carrying a firearm
         Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in
which liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been
issued under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony
and may be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 92.15 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card or passport was issued and
shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the person
was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or that
the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any low-
alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way; and
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) above is in addition to the
affirmative defense provided by §
92.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 92.16 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 529.04)
§ 92.17 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-
1, D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-
1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G or I permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O or D-
7 permit holder from Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) above,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division (F) imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division (G) imposes strict liability
on the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))
(Prior Code, § 529.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 92.19 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.20 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.21 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction for
a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the beer or
intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs and damages assessed against the
person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of beer
or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section, constitutes
unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to any premises for which a permit
has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 92.22 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 92.23 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) below, no person
who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages or is in charge of any
public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) above does not apply to establishments that are
holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4 or D-5 permit whose principal business consists
of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub, all as defined in
R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 92.24 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, opium, alum, capsicum,
copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar of lead, aloes,
glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous or injurious to
health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the manufacture of
the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer, or keep for
sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) below, a person
convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and expenses
incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor or beer
that is so adulterated, sold, kept or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 92.25 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 92.26 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 92.27 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.28 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
92.29:
      CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or employee
of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under divisions (a) or
(b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. The holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter 4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage; or
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) above fails to match the information printed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) above does not preclude a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale beer, intoxicating
liquor or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission to a premises
described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b); and
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61 and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder; and
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) above, except for purposes of
R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the state statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) above is guilty of an illegal
liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 92.29 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid; and
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A)
above, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of record
shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69 and 4301.691, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3) above, the
Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the
identification presented and the completed transaction scan may require a
permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction scan device does not
excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder from
exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older; and
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) above is in addition
to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) above
is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar who issued an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu of the
testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
93.02   Opening permit required
   
93.03   Application, fee and bond requirement
   
93.04   Restoration of pavement/landscape
   
93.05   Barriers around excavations
   
93.06   Warning lights
   
93.07   Sidewalk construction
   
93.08   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.09   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.10   Placing injurious material in street or sidewalk
   
93.11   Removal of ice and snow
   
93.12   Installation and maintenance of drainage pipes and culverts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Dedication of streets and acceptance by the municipality, see R.C. §§ 723.03
to 723.23
   Openings by the municipality, see R.C. § 723.02
   Power to establish and care for streets, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01 and
723.01
   Surface treatment, see R.C. § 723.31
§ 93.01 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of this municipality shall accept, lay out, open, improve,
grade, pave, curb or light any street or other way, unless such street or way
shall have been accepted or opened or otherwise shall have received the legal
status of a public street or way prior to the effective date of this code; or
unless such street or way corresponds in location and extent with a street or
way shown on a recorded plat which shall have been legally accepted by Council.
(Prior Code, § 905.01) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964)
§ 93.02 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, other than the Street Supervisor, Street Commissioner, Engineer
or the authorized employees or agents of either, shall make any opening and/or
bore in any street, alley, sidewalk or road right-of-way of the municipality,
unless a permit to make such opening shall have been approved and obtained,
prior to commencement of the work. A bond, project blueprint and certificate of
insurance must accompany permit application, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 905.02) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-
15-2022; Ord. O-23-05, passed 5-16-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 APPLICATION, FEE AND BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Each permit for making such openings shall be confined to a single
project and shall be reviewed by the Street Superintendent and/or Street
Commissioner and Engineer (when necessary) then issued by the Mayor or other
proper administrative officer. Application shall be made on a form prescribed
by Council, giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of
paving, the area and depth to be excavated, the exact location of each bore
entrance and exit point, and such other facts as may be provided for.
   (B)   A $100 permit fee is required for each opening permit. Projects
requiring multiple excavated openings shall be required to pay a $100 fee for
each opening.
   (C)   All projects utilizing underground boring shall be assessed $100 for
each and every entry and exit point bored in the scope of the project.
   (D)   A bond for work must be submitted by the contractor. A contractor can
apply for either an annual project-based bond as provided herein. The bond form
must be processed and signed by the contractor’s insurance company. An annual
bond will apply to permits issued to the same contractor for the current
calendar year for work within the municipality. The annual bond shall run from
January 1 to December of the current calendar year. If application for permit
occurs after October 1, and applicant does not have a current bond on file, the
bond will run through December 31 of the next calendar year. The annual bond
shall be in the amount of $50,000. An individual project bond in the amount of
$5,000 is required for individual right-of-way projects. For all other street,
sidewalks or earthwork projects, the Street Commissioner and Engineer,
together, shall determine the necessary amount for a bond. In every instance
under this division (D), the Street Commissioner and Engineer, together, may
waive the bond requirement.
   (E)   The contractor shall submit a certificate of insurance showing that
said contractor and any subcontractors who will perform work on the project are
fully protected against all possible contingencies of public liability,
property damage and the like.
   (F)   Should the estimated cost of the restoration to pavement, landscape or
fill excavation, remove all excess material exceed the amount of the bond, a
cash deposit sufficient to cover that amount must be posted with the Mayor or
other proper administrative officer. That amount will be determined after
review by the Street Supervisor and Engineer.
   (G)   The permit shall be issued only after application has been reviewed by
the Street Superintendent and Engineer (when necessary), bond, certificate of
insurance, cash deposit (where applicable) has been posted with the Mayor or
other proper administrative officer, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 905.03) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. passed O-23-05,
passed 5-16-2023; Ord. O-24-03, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 93.04 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT/ LANDSCAPE.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement, landscape or other surface
shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Street
Supervisor and/or Street Commissioner and in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications approved by Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore all surfaces and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the municipality may proceed
without notice to make such full restoration and the deposit referred to in §
93.04 shall be deemed forfeited. Thereupon, such deposit shall be paid into the
Street Repair Fund of the municipality, except such part demanded and paid to
the permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the
municipality for restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such
services performed by the municipality should exceed the amount of such
deposit, the Fiscal Officer or other administrative officer shall proceed to
collect the remainder due from such permittee.
(Prior Code, § 905.04) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-
15-2022; Ord. O-23-05, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 93.05 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, shall have such excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 905.05) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall cause at least two
illuminated red lamps to be securely and conspicuously posted on, at or near
each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the space involved shall
exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for each added 50
feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 905.06) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   The Street Superintendent and/or Street Commissioner shall supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the municipality. He or she shall
cause specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds
of pavements and transmit the same to Council for approval. When approved,
Council shall advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered
by the municipality in construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful
performance of the work. Council, if it deems advisable, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 905.07) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-
15-2022)
§ 93.08 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the
municipality, by throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some
sufficient protection over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 905.08) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the municipality, by erecting thereon any fence or building, or
permitting any fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any such
fence or building is permitted to remain upon such public way shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 905.09) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall plant, allow to be planted or upon notification fail
to promptly remove any trees, flowers, shrubbery or other similar obstructions
within the limits of any dedicated streets of the village, or upon the portion
of any such streets known as the lawn strips, between the sidewalk and roadway.
   (B)   No person shall throw, place, deposit, drop, push, leave or allow to
be placed grass clippings, shrub and tree trimmings, leaves or limbs on a
public street, sidewalk, curb or gutter within the village or to allow lawn
debris to sit on private property for such period of time or in such a manner
as to cause the lawn debris to gain access by natural means onto public
streets, sidewalks, curbs or gutters within the village, or fail to promptly
remove the lawn debris upon notification.
   (C)   No person shall throw, place, deposit, drop, push, leave or allow to
be placed upon any public street, highway, pavement, sidewalk or public ground,
fire hydrants or village trees any dirt, mud, gravel or snow or anything or
article of any nature likely to or tending to construct or create a nuisance or
hazard to any person or vehicle traveling upon or using such street, highway,
pavement or sidewalk which might damage, deface or obscure such street,
highway, pavement, sidewalk, fire hydrants or village trees.
   (D)   No person shall place or knowingly leave upon any part of a highway,
lane, road, street or alley barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any
kind to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 905.10) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. O-17-18, passed 8-1-
2017; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any street with graded or paved sidewalk, within the first
four hours after daylight, following or during a fall of snow, shall cause the
snow to be removed from such walk; and this provision shall include snow or ice
falling from any building.
   (B)   Whenever such sidewalk or any part thereof shall become encumbered
with ice, the owner, occupant or person in control, within the first four hours
after daylight, following or during its formation, shall cause such sidewalk to
be made safe by removing such ice or sprinkling the same with sand or other
suitable substance.
   (C)   No person shall transport, snow plow or otherwise place snow, ice or
other debris:
      (1)   Within seven feet of a fire hydrant to conceal or limit access to
such hydrant; or
      (2)   Let such debris exceed 24 inches in height, measured from the top
of the curb, within any traffic safety visibility area.
         (a)   A traffic visibility area may include private property and/or
public right-of-way, and is a triangle area defined by measuring 30 feet from
the intersection of street curb lines (or the right-of-way lines where there is
no curb) and connecting the lines across the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
         (b)   For intersections of streets and driveways, the traffic safety
visibility area shall be created by measuring 25 feet from the edge of the
driveway along the curb or right-of-way line and 20 feet along the driveway,
perpendicular from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 905.11) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1964; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-
20-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE PIPES AND CULVERTS.
   (A)   Establishing standards for construction of culvert drainage pipes. The
Street Superintendent and/or Street Commissioner and the Village Engineer shall
establish standards for the construction of culvert drainage pipes in
appropriate unsewered areas throughout the village. Each owner and developer of
lands adjoining a public thoroughfare shall be responsible to contract and
maintain a drainage culvert of the size and length determined by the Village
Engineer to accommodate surface water runoff adjoining the premises. The
culvert shall remain unobstructed and in good condition and shall be installed
at grades determined by the Village Engineer and backfilled according to the
village’s drainage pipes and culverts design policy.
   (B)   Culvert installation, notice and cost. If the Street Superintendent
and/or Street Commissioner determines that a culvert is required anywhere
within the right-of-way adjacent to any of the public streets or highways in
order to provide for adequate drainage for such streets and highways, he or she
shall serve written notice upon the property owner for the installation of such
culvert. In the event that the property owner fails to install the culvert or
fails to install such culvert in such manner as to function properly within 30
days after service of such notice, the Superintendent shall install such
culvert. The charges for the installation of the culvert shall be forwarded to
the property owner and are made a lien on the corresponding lot, land or
premises upon which such culvert is situated. If such charges are not paid
within 30 days after becoming due and payable, they shall be certified by
Village Council to the County Fiscal Officer with interest and penalties
allowed by law and such charges shall be collected as other real property taxes
are collected.
   (C)   Culvert reconstruction, notice and cost. If the Street Superintendent
and/or Street Commissioner determines that a culvert, as installed, is not
properly functioning because of improper sizing, installation or subsequent
damage, he or she shall serve written notice upon the property owner for the
removal and/or correction of such culvert. In the event that the property owner
fails to remove or otherwise improve the culvert so as to cause such culvert to
function properly within 30 days after service of such notice, the
Superintendent shall make such corrections as, in his or her discretion, are
necessary to cause such culvert to function properly. The charges for the
correction of such culvert shall be forwarded to the property owner and are
made a lien on the corresponding lot, land or premises upon which such culvert
is situated, and if such charges are not paid within 30 days after due and
payable, they shall be certified by Village Council to the County Fiscal
Officer, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate of the county with
interest and penalties allowed by law, and such charges shall be collected as
other taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 905.12) (Ord. 96-22, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. O-19-18, passed 6-4-
2019; Ord. O-22-07, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall for the first offense, be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and each
subsequent offense shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor. Upon
conviction thereof, each offense shall be fined up to the maximum penalty for
the offense pursuant to the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 905.99) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 94: TREES, SHRUBBERY AND WEEDS
Section
   
94.01   Damaging trees
   
94.02   Authority of Zoning Inspector
   
94.03   Trimming trees
   
94.04   Removal of trees
   
94.05   Failure to remove trees
   
94.06   Planting of trees and shrubs; permit
   
94.07   Removal of weeds and grass by owner or occupant
   
94.08   Removal of trees, weeds and grasses by municipality
   
94.09   Assessment of costs by municipality
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Assessment for tree planting or maintenance, see R.C. § 727.011
   Authority to regulate trees and shrubbery, see R.C. § 715.20
§ 94.01 DAMAGING TREES.
   No person shall knowingly mutilate or damage, in any manner or means, any
tree on village property on or along any sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, § 909.01) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 AUTHORITY OF ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall remove or destroy or cause to be destroyed any tree on
village property on or along any sidewalk or street in the village without
first having obtained in writing permission to do so from the Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   An appeal from the decision of the Zoning Inspector may be made to the
Planning Commission by any person aggrieved by a decision of the Inspector, or
any officers, department, board or bureau of the village adversely affected by
such decision.
   (C)   Upon such appeal to the Planning Commission, the Commission, at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, shall review such decision and affirm, modify
or reverse any such decision of the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 909.02) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 TRIMMING TREES.
   All trees along the sidewalks and streets of the village shall be so trimmed
that no limbs, branches or leaves thereof shall extend or be suspended within
ten feet from the level of the sidewalk or street. It is made the duty and
obligation of all owners of such property upon or abutting which any trees
shall be found to keep such trees thereon trimmed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 909.03) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 REMOVAL OF TREES.
   Any tree on village property on or along any sidewalk or street because of
decay, mutilation or damage, may be declared by the Zoning Inspector to be a
public hazard and nuisance. The Inspector is instructed, authorized and
empowered to order the owners of the property abutting such sidewalk or street
on which the trees are found, to remove the same forthwith. If any person shall
neglect or refuse to comply with the notice within 15 days of receipt thereof,
then it shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to cause the removal of such
trees.
(Prior Code, § 909.04) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 94.05 FAILURE TO REMOVE TREES.
   Failure to trim or remove trees upon receipt of lawful notice from the
Zoning Inspector, in conformity with §§
94.02 and
94.04, is declared to be a violation of this section. The cost and expense
thereof shall be chargeable against the abutting property owner.
(Prior Code, § 909.05) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 94.06 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter plant or remove any tree or shrub upon any
public way, street or alley, unless he or she shall have first obtained a
permit in writing from the Zoning Inspector specifying the size, type, species
and location on the public way, street or alley of the tree or shrub so to be
planted or removed.
   (B)   Street trees, when planted, shall be located outside of the street
right-of-way of any sewer or water easements that may be adjacent to the street
right-of-way, and planted in such manner as not to impair visibility at any
corner or corners. It is strongly recommended that all subdividers or
developers retain existing trees and plant trees on each lot. The Shade Tree
Authority will cooperate in giving advise on species of trees which are
acceptable for planting.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to deny a permit to any
person who proposes to remove any tree or shrub upon a public way, street or
alley. Further, the Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to deny a permit
to any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, street
or alley of a size, type or species found to be undesirable by the Authority or
so found to be undesirable for the location proposed; or he or she may deny a
permit to any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way,
street or alley if at a location found by the Authority to be of a size or type
unsuitable for planting of trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 909.06) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND GRASS BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Any person who owns or has charge of land within the village shall
keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and shall be required
to cut all such noxious weeds on the lot or lots owned or controlled by him or
her.
   (B)   Any person who owns or has charge of land within the village shall cut
all weeds or grass which exceeds six inches in height, except in such places
where the land is actively used for legitimate agricultural purposes. Such
plants, grass, weeds and vegetation shall be cut, trimmed and maintained to
provide for the minimum yard setback requirements specified in §§
152.085 through
152.089. When a lot does not have sufficient area to meet these minimum
requirements, the required yards shall terminate at the property line.
   (C)   Upon information that noxious weeds are growing on land within the
village and are about to spread or mature seeds in violation of division (A)
above, or that weeds or grass present on such land exceeds six inches in height
in violation of division (B) above, written notice shall be provided to the
owner and person having control of such land that the violations must be
corrected within five business days of the receipt of such notice. The written
notice shall be sent by certified mail, with return receipt requested, or hand
delivered to a resident of the property. In addition, notice may also be
provided by placing a single notice in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village. The costs of such notice shall be charged to the owner of
the lot in violation in such an amount as listed in the village fee schedule
established in §
37.01.
   (D)   Only one notice per calendar year under division (C) above is required
for a lot or parcel. If, after a notice has been served in accordance with this
section, the village determines that a subsequent violation has occurred, the
village may proceed with the remedy set forth in divisions (E), (F) and (G)
below without further notice.
   (E)   If the owner or person having charge of the land in violation of
divisions (A) or (B) above, herein fails to comply with the notice to cut and/
or destroy such weeds or grass, the Mayor shall cause the weeds or grass to be
cut and/or destroyed by employing the necessary labor, either through the
village or through a third-party servicer at the village’s sole discretion, to
perform such tasks. In such event, all expenses incurred therefor shall, when
approved by Council, be paid out of monies in the Village Treasury not
otherwise appropriated and charged back to the owner of the lot as designated
below.
   (F)   Unless an outside contractor has completed the work, the charge for
cutting and/or destroying the weeds or grass shall be identified in the village
fee schedule, established in §
37.01, and shall be charged back to the owner of the lot. If an outside
contractor has performed the work, those charges shall be charged back to the
owner of the lot.
   (G)   After the weeds or grass, described in divisions (A) or (B) above,
have been cut and/or destroyed by the village, the Office Administrator shall
send a statement to the owner of the lot demanding payment for the costs
incurred by the cutting and/or destroying such weeds or grass. If payment is
not received by the village within 30 days from the date of the mailing such
notice, a penalty in the amount listed on the village fee schedule shall be
imposed upon the owner of the lot and added to the above charges. Council shall
then make a written return to the County Fiscal Officer of its action, showing
the total charges for postage and/or placing the aforesaid notice to the
newspaper, if any, together with a proper description of the premises upon
which these services were performed. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate, shall be a lien upon the lot from the date of entry and shall be
collected as other taxes are collected and returned to the village by the
County Fiscal Officer. Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided
in division (F) above.
(Prior Code, § 909.07) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-
20-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF TREES, WEEDS AND GRASSES BY MUNICIPALITY.
   In the event the owner does not trim or remove any tree, plant or shrubbery,
or any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of this section, then
the Manager is authorized and it is declared to be his or her duty to have
enforced the provisions of this section, and to cause to be trimmed or removed
such tree, plant or shrubbery, or part thereof, and cut and remove all grass
and weeds.
(Prior Code, § 909.08) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 94.09 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS BY MUNICIPALITY.
   Whenever any tree, plant or shrubbery, or part thereof, or weeds and grass
are growing in any street, public place or upon private property contiguous to
a street or sidewalk, or public place, and is trimmed or removed by the
municipality, then after the work is done, the municipality shall give five
days’ notice by regular mail, to the owner of such lot or parcel of land, at
his or her last known address, to pay the cost of such trimming or removal of
trees, plant, shrubbery, grass or parts thereof, which notice shall be
accompanied by a statement of the amount of cost incurred, and in the event the
same is not paid within 30 days after the mailing of such notice, then the
amount shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection the same as
other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Prior Code, § 909.09) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where the penalty is
not otherwise provided, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
94.06 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day’s violation shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
94.07 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day’s violation or each repeated
violation by the same person shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 909.99) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-20-2000)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Hours
   
95.02   Use of motor vehicles
   
95.03   Swimming, boating and wading in Elizabeth Park
   
95.04   Parking in Warwick Park
   
95.05   Rental deposit and fee for the village park system
Statutory reference:
   Board of Park Trustees, see R.C. §§ 755.19 et seq.
   Land appropriation for parks, see R.C. §§ 715.21 and 719.01
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)(5)
§ 95.01 HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall enter Elizabeth Park or Warwick Park between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   Elizabeth Park and Warwick Park shall be closed during the hours of 9:
00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 917.01) (Ord. 11-71, passed 8-17-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall use a motor vehicle on park land in the village other than
on duly dedicated public streets.
(Prior Code, § 917.02) (Ord. 4-78, passed 6-6-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 SWIMMING, BOATING AND WADING IN ELIZABETH PARK.
   It shall be unlawful to swim, boat or wade in Elizabeth Park.
(Prior Code, § 917.03) (Ord. 01-06, passed 6-19-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 PARKING IN WARWICK PARK.
   No person shall park, stand, cause, suffer, allow or permit to be parked, or
allowed to stand, any vehicle in Warwick Park during the period from 9:00 p.m.
until sunrise the following day. The park shall be closed for all parking
during that period of time.
(Prior Code, § 917.05) (Ord. 97-17, passed 5-20-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 RENTAL DEPOSIT AND FEE FOR THE VILLAGE PARK SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally. Any village-owned park, ball field or recreational area
shall be open to the public during day light hours unless previously reserved
as provided under this section. Any person, organization or company may submit
a reservation application to the village and receive approval for such use. The
requirements of the application, as may be amended, must be met. The
application form has been approved by Village Council and may be modified only
by the Mayor with a majority vote of the Streets Committee. Applications shall
be processed on a first-come, first-served basis. The Mayor and/or his or her
designee shall approve or disapprove the application so long as all of the
required information is included, it is in the best interest of the village,
and the approval furthers the general welfare, safety and health of the
residents of the village.
   (B)   Single-day rental. A rental deposit and fee shall be assessed on one-
day park reservations. The deposit and fee shall be tendered together to the
village at the time of the application. Any such rental of the park and/or
equipment shall be charged a deposit and fee of $125. Twenty-five dollars of
that amount serves as a deposit and shall be returned after the rental date so
long as park rules were not violated during the applicant’s use or there has
been no damage to the rental equipment or to the park. If there has been damage
incurred to the park or incurred by the village for the equipment (i.e., if the
damage is less than $25, the balance between the $25 and the damage incurred
shall be returned to the renter).
   (C)   Multi-day rental. A rental deposit and fee shall be assessed on multi-
day park reservations, regardless of whether those days are weekdays, weekends
or holidays. The deposit and fee shall be tendered together to the village at
the time of the application. Any such rental of the park and/or equipment shall
be charged a deposit and fee of $350. One hundred fifty dollars of that amount
serves as a deposit and shall be returned after the last rental date so long as
park rules were not violated during the applicant’s use or there has been no
damage to the rental equipment or to the park itself. If there has been damage
incurred to the park or incurred by the village for the equipment (i.e., if the
damage is less than $150, the balance between the $150 and the damage incurred
shall be returned to the renter).
   (D)   Leagues. Baseball/softball leagues must meet with the Street
Superintendent and/or street chair. Upon inspection of the field, bleachers and
dugouts, the organization and its representative agrees to maintain the
facilities and make repairs as stated in the rental agreement by determined
date. Failure to make repairs, by said date, shall nullify the rental agreement
and result in loss of the deposit. The organization will provide proof of
insurance, signed waiver and assumption of risk, and a copy of the field use
schedule, including all practices.
(Prior Code, § 917.06) (Ord. 09-6, passed 5-6-2009; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-
2018; Ord. O-19-33, passed 1-21-2020; Ord. O-22-13, passed 7-5-2022)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fireworks and Explosives
   
96.001   Definitions
   
96.002   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
96.003   Permit to use fireworks
   
96.004   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
96.005   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
96.006   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
96.007   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
96.008   Application of subchapter
   
96.009   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
96.010   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
   
96.011   Storage of explosives
   
96.012   Blasting permit
Fire Prevention
   
96.030   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
96.031   Protective appliances
   
96.032   Compliance with order
   
96.033   Waste receptacles
   
96.034   Hotel to have fire warning device producing visible signal
   
96.035   Fire suppression systems
   
96.036   Violations of State Fire Code prohibited
   
96.037   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels and other places
   
96.038   Negligent burning
   
96.039   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
96.040   Unvented heaters
Open Burning
   
96.055   Definitions
   
96.056   Relations to other prohibitions
   
96.057   Open burning in restricted areas
   
96.058   Permission and notice to open burn
   
96.059   Open burning; recreational fires; portable outdoor fireplaces
Ohio Fire Code
   
96.070   Adoption
   
96.071   Purpose
   
96.072   Application
   
96.073   Enforcement
   
96.074   Compliance
   
96.075   Setting fires which spread
   
96.076   Unfriendly fires in building; alarm duties
   
96.077   Disclosure of true fire safety inspector status
   
96.078   Fire equipment sale or use; certification of installers
   
96.079   Copies
   
96.080   Conflict
Fire Damaged Structures
   
96.095   Payment of insurance proceeds
   
96.096   Removal or securing fund
   
96.097   Agreement to transfer funds
 
   
96.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Appeals of orders, see R.C. § 119.12
   Common pleas court jurisdiction, see R.C. §§ 3737.44(A) and 3737.51(H)
   Entry and inspection, see R.C. §§ 3737.14, 3737.41 and 3737.42
   Fire extinguishing and alarm systems in rest and nursing homes, see R.C. §
3721.071
   Fire investigation, see R.C. §§ 737.27 and 3737.24 et seq.
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see R.C. § 715.60
   Self-service filling stations, see R.C. § 3741.14
   State certification of firefighters, see R.C. §§ 737.08, 737.22 and 3737.33
   State certification of fire safety inspectors, see R.C. §§ 3737.01(D) and
3737.34
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 96.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials; or
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found.
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing;
      (2)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections 3.1.1
and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition);
      (3)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke; and
      (4)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive pyrotechnic
mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less for multiple
tubes.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01) (Prior Code, § 1519.01)
§ 96.002 POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H) below, R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
   (F)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer or controlled substance.
   (G)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite or explode fireworks on
the property of another person without that person’s permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
   (H)   Purchase, use and local regulation of consumer; grade fireworks.
      (1)   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler and
shall be subject to this division (H).
      (2)   Any person authorized under this division (H) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
         (a)   January 1st;
         (b)   Chinese new year’s day;
         (c)   May 5th;
         (d)   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding that day;
         (e)   June 19th;
         (f)   July 3rd, 4th and 5th;
         (g)   The first Friday, Saturday and Sunday before and after July 4th;
         (h)   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
         (i)   Diwali; and
         (j)   December 31st.
      (3)   Fireworks discharged, ignited or exploded pursuant to this division
(H) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
      (4)   The municipality may do either of the following:
         (a)   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite or
explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (H); or
         (b)   Ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks purchased
pursuant to this division (H).
      (5)   This division (H) does not limit the enforcement of any ordinance,
resolution or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the peace or
disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45) (Prior Code, § 1519.04) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 96.003 PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) above shall be evidenced by the
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar
chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the exhibition. Any
exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may
obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if available, from
the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the Legislative Authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss to person
or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance
coverage of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death or
loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The
Legislative Authority may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or
proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a
permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage
required by this division (F) or by the Legislative Authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The Legislative Authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F)) (Prior Code, § 1519.02) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 96.004 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
   (G)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of
1.4G fireworks as required by R.C. § 3743.47(A).
   (H)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to have safety glasses available for sale as
required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (L), 3743.61(E) - (L)) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A) through
(D)
§ 96.005 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
   (B)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. § 3743.45,
no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
   (C)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. § 3743.45
shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks that the
person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.006 EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G)) (Prior Code, § 1519.03) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), and (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 96.007 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.008 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers; and
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet; and
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80) (Prior Code, § 1519.05)
§ 96.009 ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal or a certified fire safety
inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or she
finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to believe
has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be made in
accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing arrests by
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 96.010 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) below, all retail sales
of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only occur
from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or from a
representative sample showroom as described in this section on a licensed
premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the transfer
of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises; and
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Non-Residential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs or other similar product depictions.
The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed premises that
has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any structure on a
licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the licensed premises
in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements.
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce.
         (b)   1.   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or
after June 30, 1997, or that resumes operations at any time after a period of
inactive status of licensure greater than one year, and to which the public has
access for retail purposes shall not exceed 7,500 square feet in floor area.
            2.   A fireworks showroom that, through construction of a new
showroom, expansion of an existing showroom or similar means, first exceeds
5,000 square feet, to which the public has access for retail purposes, after
February 7, 2022, shall be equipped with a sprinkler system that meets the
criteria for sprinkler systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under
“NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)”.
            3.   Notwithstanding division (D) below, the State Fire Marshal may
provide a variance to the requirements of division (C)(3)(b)2. above pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.59 for a sprinkler system that matches or exceeds the degree of
safety provided by a sprinkler system that meets the criteria for sprinkler
systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under “NFPA 13, Standard for the
Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)”.
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise, and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance.
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) above are not
subject to any variance, waiver, or exclusion pursuant to this chapter or any
applicable building code.
(R.C. § 3743.25) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.011 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see R.C.
§ 2923.17
§ 96.012 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor or other
proper municipal officer. The Mayor or other proper municipal officer before
granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify
the municipality and all other persons against injury or damages which might
result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
96.999
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 96.030 REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee or occupant of the
premises.
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.031 PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises against
fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the owner,
lessee or occupant requiring the installation, replacement or repair of
appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.032 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §§
96.030 or
96.031 shall be directed to the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises,
building or structure or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises,
building or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.033 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.034 HOTEL TO HAVE FIRE WARNING DEVICE PRODUCING VISIBLE SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every hotel shall have available at least one operational single
station automatic fire warning device approved by the Fire Chief that produces
a visible warning signal when activated by every product of combustion. The
device, at the discretion of the owner, may also be activated by an early
warning fire protection system. Hotels having fewer than 75 rooms shall have at
least one warning device available for its guests. Hotels having more than 75
rooms shall have available for its guests one device for every group of 75
rooms. Upon the request of a guest, such a device, if available, shall be
installed in the guest’s room.
   (B)   As used in this section, HOTEL means every establishment kept, used,
maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which five or more rooms are used for
accommodation of such guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures, except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 5739.091.
(R.C. §§ 3781.107, 5739.01(M))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 96.035 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every building constructed in this municipality with floors used for
human occupancy located more than 75 feet in height above the lower level of
fire department vehicle access shall have a fire suppression system installed
and in operation in conformity with the rules of the state Board of Building
Standards adopted pursuant to R.C. § 3781.10.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. A system that includes devices and equipment to
detect a fire, actuates an alarm and suppress or control a fire.
      HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Does not include floors of buildings where occupancy by
humans is limited to ingress, egress and limited access for maintenance and
repair.
(R.C. § 3781.108(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 96.036 VIOLATIONS OF STATE FIRE CODE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
§ 96.037 POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of any non-
transient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly shall
post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such premises.
No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
§ 96.038 NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
131.02
§ 96.039 SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the State Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. § 3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 96.040 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning;
or
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) above or
used with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division (E).
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division (F).
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 521.02)
OPEN BURNING
§ 96.055 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR, but an AIR CURTAIN
DESTRUCTOR may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      BUILDING MATERIALS. Those materials resulting from the alteration,
construction, destruction, rehabilitation or repair of any human-made physical
structure, including, without limitation, houses, buildings, industrial or
commercial facilities, or roadways.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado;
         (b)   High winds;
         (c)   An earthquake;
         (d)   An explosion;
         (e)   A flood; or
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. LAND CLEARING
WASTE also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. OPEN BURNING includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. § 3745-17-09 or O.A.C. §
3745-17-10.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this section. For materials
subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this section are
referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective date of this
section. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified) Code
of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a referenced
document is not applicable unless and until this section has been amended to
specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows.
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/_home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 6, 2017 in Supplement IV of the 2012
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01) (Prior Code, § 1511.01)
§ 96.056 RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02) (Prior Code, § 1511.02) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.057 OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) below or in R.C. §
3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs;
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C. §
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d);
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention;
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state or local law enforcement officials; and
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(4) above shall
not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum size sufficient
for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to minimize the generation
and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
96.058(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or oral
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method;
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) above; provided the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range
management, prairie and grassland management, invasive species management or
wildlife management practices, if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The fire shall be performed within 180 days of submitting the
notification;
         (b)   The fire shall be performed when it is anticipated weather
conditions will minimize the dispersion of smoke near populated areas and the
smoke does not create a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks or air
fields. Smoke dispersion conditions shall be evaluated before, during and after
the fire and actions taken to minimize smoke impacts;
         (c)   The person making the notification shall notify the local fire
department having jurisdiction over the burn area at least 24 hours before the
fire is anticipated to occur;
         (d)   The person making the notification shall provide reasonable
notification to populations potentially impacted by the smoke before the fire
occurs. Populations potentially impacted shall include, at a minimum, those
within one-quarter mile of the burn site. Reasonable notification shall include
one of the following:
            1.   Posting notice of intent to burn, including contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur, within open view from a public roadway adjacent to
and outside of the property on which the fire will occur;
            2.   Posting a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
local community in which the fire will occur. The notice shall include, at a
minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will occur, contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur; or
            3.   Delivering written notice directly to residences and
businesses within a minimum of one-quarter mile of the burn site. Notices shall
include, at a minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will
occur, contact information for the person making the notification and the
anticipated date that the fire will occur.
         (e)   The person making the notification shall document information on
the weather, smoke conditions, any air quality concerns before, during and
after the fire, the actual number of acres burned, the time the fire was
initially kindled, the time when active kindling ceased and the time at which
mop up activities ceased. The person making the notification shall maintain
this information for a minimum of one year from the date of the fire and shall
provide this information to the appropriate Ohio EPA district office or local
air agency within ten days upon request; and
         (f)   Reasonable access to the burn site shall be provided to Ohio EPA
representatives at any time during the fire.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
96.058(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) above;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
96.058(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for
the instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. § 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval; or
      (4)   Fires or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03) (Prior Code, § 1511.03) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.058 PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not
be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and contain
such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) below, such
applications shall contain, as a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) below, permission to open
burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where public
health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay while
written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of the
Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) above shall
contain information as required in division (A)(2) above, except the
information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d) above need not be
provided unless it is available at the time of submittal of the application.
The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio EPA District Office or local air
agency at least five working days before each training session of the date or
dates when the training session will take place and its location. Saturday,
Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under § 91.57(D)(2) and O.A.C. § 3745-19-
04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
provides proof of written notice of intent to demolish received by the
appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with O.A.C. § 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding the
following:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05) (Prior Code, § 1511.04) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.059 OPEN BURNING; RECREATIONAL FIRES; PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
   (A)   General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be
kindled or maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   Prohibited open burning. Open burning that is offensive or
objectionable because of smoke emissions or when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make such fires hazardous shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the Fire Code
Official in accordance with Ohio Fire Code Rule 1301:7-7-01 prior to kindling a
fire for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices,
prevention or control of disease or pests, or a bonfire. Application for such
approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of the land
upon which the fire is to be kindled.
   (D)   Authorization. Where required by state or local law or regulations,
open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from the state or
local air and water quality management authority; provided that all conditions
specified in the authorization are followed.
   (E)   Extinguishment authority. The Fire Code Official is authorized to
order the extinguishment by the permit holder, another person responsible or
the Fire Department of open burning that creates or adds to a hazardous or
objectionable situation.
   (F)   Location. The location for open burning shall not be less than 50 feet
(15,240 mm) from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the
fire from spreading to within 50 feet (15,240 mm) of any structure.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet (4,572
mm) from a structure.
      (2)   The minimum required distance from a structure shall be 25 feet
(7,620 mm) where the pile size is three feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and
two feet (610 mm) or less in height.
         (a)   Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet
(15,240 mm) of a structure or combustible material unless the fire is contained
in a barbecue pit. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 50 feet
(15,240 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
         (b)   Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be conducted
within 25 feet (7,620 mm) of a structure or combustible material. Conditions
which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7,620 mm) of a structure
shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
         (c)   Portable outdoor fireplaces.
            1.   Generally. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated
within 15 feet (3,048 mm) of a structure or combustible material.
            2.   Exception. Portable outdoor fireplaces used at one- and two-
family dwellings.
   (H)   Attendance. Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires and use of
portable outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly attended until the fire is
extinguished. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with O.A.C.
§ 1301:7-7-09(F) with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-
extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water
truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.
(Prior Code, § 1511.05) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see O.A.C. § 1301:7-7-03
OHIO FIRE CODE
§ 96.070 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The rules of the State Fire Marshal as set forth in O.A.C. Chapter
1301:7-7 shall be known as the Ohio Fire Code (OFC) and hereinafter in such
rule may also be referred to as the State Fire Code or this Code.
   (B)   The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be those that
are listed in O.A.C. § 1301:7-7-80 and such codes and standards shall be
incorporated by reference into and considered to be part of the requirements of
this Code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further
regulated in O.A.C. § 1301:7-7-80 (B)(7)(a)(102.7.1) and (B)(7)(b)(102.7.2).
(Prior Code, § 1501.01)
§ 96.071 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code is to establish the minimum requirements consistent
with nationally recognized good practice for providing a reasonable level of
life safety and property protection from the hazards of fire, explosion or
dangerous conditions in new and existing buildings, structures and premises,
and to provide safety to firefighters and emergency responders during emergency
operations.
(Prior Code, § 1501.02)
§ 96.072 APPLICATION.
   The Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein applies to the use of all lands and
properties within the municipality and such other lands or properties owned by
the municipality which are situated outside the corporate limits thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1501.03)
§ 96.073 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall serve as Fire Safety Inspector unless he or she has
received a certificate issued by the State Board of Emergency Medical Services
under former R.C. §§ 3303.07 or 4765.55 evidencing his or her satisfactory
completion of a fire safety inspection training program.
   (B)   For municipal criminal proceedings, the complaint, warrant or summons,
or the issuance of a citation in minor misdemeanor cases shall be, as is
prescribed in the State Rules of Criminal Procedure, by referencing the
numerical designation of the applicable municipal ordinance, including the
specific provision of the Ohio Fire Code, or any order issued pursuant thereto;
provided such order fixes a reasonable time for abatement of the violation.
State enforcement proceedings for violation of R.C. Chapter 3737 or the Ohio
Fire Code shall be as is prescribed in R.C. §§ 3737.41 to 3737.46.
   (C)   A copy of such complaint or citation shall be prominently posted at or
near each place a violation referred to occurs.
   (D)   Upon request of the Fire Safety Inspector, the Legal Officer shall
institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 3737.
(Prior Code, § 1501.04) Penalty, see §
96.999
Cross-reference:
   State Fire Code, see §
96.070
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.34
§ 96.074 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire Code
as adopted herein or any order issued pursuant thereto.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire protection activities as prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code, or fail to
obtain a permit or license for the various uses or activities as required by
such Code, or fail to comply with the municipal application and plan submission
and processing requirements including payment of the fees designated therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1501.05) Penalty, see §
96.999
Cross-reference:
   State Fire Code, see §
96.070
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.51(A)
§ 96.075 SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire, which
through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to any
structure, field or wood lot.
(Prior Code, § 1501.07) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.62
§ 96.076 UNFRIENDLY FIRES IN BUILDING; ALARM DUTIES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the Ohio Basic Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire,
or upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a
destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
   (C)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(Prior Code, § 1501.08) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Basic Building Code, see O.A.C. §§ 4101:1-1-01 et seq.
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.63
§ 96.077 DISCLOSURE OF TRUE FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR STATUS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself or herself out to be such, unless prior to commencing any
inspection function, he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency, and that he or she is not acting in an
official capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
(Prior Code, § 1501.09) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.64
§ 96.078 FIRE EQUIPMENT SALE OR USE; CERTIFICATION OF INSTALLERS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale or use any fire protection or
firefighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the State Fire Marshal in the Ohio Fire Code.
   (B)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or firefighting
equipment without a certificate or a provisional certificate issued by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 1501.10) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 3737.65
§ 96.079 COPIES.
   Copies of codes as adopted in this chapter are on file with the Council
Clerk for inspection by the public, and also on file in the County Law Library,
and the Clerk has copies available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Prior Code, § 1501.11)
§ 96.080 CONFLICT.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the Ohio Fire Code shall not be deemed to
nullify any provisions of state or federal law. Municipal corporations, under
R.C. § 3781.01, may make further and additional regulations, not in conflict
with R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or with the rules of the State Board of
Building Standards. However, under R.C. § 3781.12, approval by the Board of
Building Standards of any fixture, device, material, system, assembly or
product of a manufacturing process, or method or manner of construction or
installation shall constitute approval for their use anywhere in the state.
      (2)   As provided in R.C. § 3781.11(B), the rules of the Board of
Building Standards shall supersede and govern any order, standard or rule of
the Division of Fire Marshal or Industrial Compliance in the Department of
Commerce, and the Department of Health and of counties and townships, in all
cases where such orders, standards or rules are in conflict with the rules of
the Board of Building Standards, except that rules adopted and orders issued by
the Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3743 prevail in the event of a
conflict.
      (3)   The rules of the Board of Building Standards adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 3781.10 and known as the Ohio Building Code (OBC) shall govern any rule
or standards adopted by the Board pursuant to R.C. §§ 4104.02 and 4105.011.
   (B)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other municipal ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 1501.12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see O.A.C. § 4101:1-1(102.2)
FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES
§ 96.095 PAYMENT OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   When a loss caused by fire, agreed to between the named insured or
insureds and the company or companies equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate
limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or structure,
the insurance company or companies, in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(F), shall
transfer from the insurance proceeds to the Fiscal Officer in the aggregate,
$2,000 for each $15,000 and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or if at
the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds and
the insurance company or companies, the named insured or insureds have
submitted a contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or
securing the building or other structure, shall transfer from the insurance
proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
   (B)   The transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the village shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (C)   The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor’s signed
estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or other
structure after the transfer, and the designated officer shall return the
amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the named insured or insureds;
provided that the village has not commenced to remove, repair or secure the
building or other structure.
(Prior Code, § 1529.01) (Ord. 09-5, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 96.096 REMOVAL OR SECURING FUND.
   (A)   Upon receipt of proceeds by the Fiscal Officer, as authorized in §
96.095, the Fiscal Officer shall place the proceeds in a separate fund to be
used solely as security against the total cost of removing, repairing or
securing, incurred by the village pursuant to R.C. § 715.261.
   (B)   If the village has incurred any costs for repair, removal or securing
of the building or other structure, the costs shall be paid from the fund, and
if excess funds remain, the village shall transfer, no later than 60 days after
all such costs have been paid, the remaining funds to the named insured or
insureds. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of
the village to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
(Prior Code, § 1529.02) (Ord. 09-5, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 96.097 AGREEMENT TO TRANSFER FUNDS.
   The village and the named insured or insureds may enter into an agreement
that permits the transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds if some
other reasonable disposition of the damaged property has been negotiated
between the village and the named insured or insureds.
(Prior Code, § 1529.03) (Ord. 09-5, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B)(2) or (B)(3)
below, whoever violates any provisions of §§
96.001 through
96.008 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 3743.60(I) or 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
96.004(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
96.006(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division (B) and unless the third sentence of this division (B) applies,
the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor
of fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
96.006(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
96.002(F) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, a person may be convicted at the same
trial or proceeding of a violation of §
96.002(F) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the violation
of §
96.002(F).
      (5)   Whoever violates §
96.004(G) or (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
96.002(G) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H)) (Prior Code, §§ 1511.99, 1519.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
96.055 through
96.059 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 1511.99)
   (D)   (1)   Criminal penalties.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3737.99(B), whoever
violates §
96.074(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
96.074(B) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         (c)   Whoever violates §§
96.075 or
96.077 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (d)   Whoever violates §§
96.076 or
96.078 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3737.07, any person who has
received a citation for a serious violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any order
issued pursuant to it, shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than
$1,000 for each such violation.
         (b)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3737.07, any person who has
received a citation for a violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued
pursuant to it, and such violation is specifically determined not to be of a
serious nature, may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for
each such violation.
         (c)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3737.07, any person who fails to
correct a violation for which a citation has been issued within a period
permitted for its correction, may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than
$1,000 for each day during which such failure or violation continues.
         (d)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3737.07, any person who violates
any of the posting requirements, as prescribed by §
96.073(C), shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each
violation.
         (e)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged and the history of the previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under §§
96.070 through
96.080.
         (f)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
         (g)   Civil penalties imposed by §§
96.070 through
96.080 shall be paid to the Chief Fiscal Officer for deposit into the General
Revenue Fund. Such penalties may be recovered in a civil action in the name of
the municipality brought in the Court of Common Pleas.
(Prior Code, § 1501.99)
Cross-reference:
   State Fire Code, see §
96.070
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see R.C. § 3737.51(B)
through (H)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESSES GENERALLY
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESSES GENERALLY
Section
Construction Contractor Registration
   
110.01   Construction contractor registration
   
110.02   Annual application/registration of credentials; application fee
   
110.03   Falsification of credentials; revocation of license; appeals
   
110.04   Display of license upon request
Video Service Providers
   
110.15   Fees
Medical Marijuana Cultivators, Processors and Retail Dispensers
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   Cultivating, processing and dispensing medical marijuana prohibited
Bed and Breakfast Registration and Operation
   
110.45   Definition
   
110.46   Registration
   
110.47   Prohibited acts
   
110.48   Transient guest tax applies
Short-Term Rental Registration and Operation
   
110.60   Definition
   
110.61   Registration
   
110.62   Prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
§ 110.01 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall serve or act as a construction contractor or perform
any such related or similar work in the village, unless such person has
registered with the Fiscal Officer as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall serve or act as a construction contractor to perform
any such related or similar work in the village if such website was failing to
have paid personal or company taxes.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to residents of the village serving as
a contractor on his, her or their own premises.
(Prior Code, § 731.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 ANNUAL APPLICATION/ REGISTRATION OF CREDENTIALS; APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Whoever desires to serve as a construction contractor and/or conduct
and offer such services within the village shall register annually with the
Fiscal Officer on a written application on a form prepared and provided by the
Fiscal Officer correctly setting forth the required information, which shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant and any alias (d/b/a and the like);
      (2)   His, her or its current address;
      (3)   A brief description of the goods, wares, merchandise, investments,
products or services involved;
      (4)   The address where such work and/or services are to be provided
within the village;
      (5)   The appropriate tax identification number for the person(s) and/or
entity completing the work; and
      (6)   A good faith estimate of the number of employees that will be
working for the contractor within the village.
   (B)   The registration hereunder shall be made during normal village
business hours and no later than seven weekdays after the commencement of such
work by the applicant within the village.
   (C)   Concurrently with the filing of the application, the applicant shall
pay a fee, as listed in the village fee schedule, established in §
37.01, to compensate for the costs incident to the registration and issuance of
stamped copies of credentials.
   (D)   Beginning in the year 2019, any contractor who does not complete his,
her or their registration within seven weekdays of commencing work in the
village shall incur a civil penalty fee, as listed in the village fee schedule,
for each day after the seventh calendar day the contractor works within the
village and has not registered. The maximum civil penalty for any given
calendar year shall also be listed in the village fee schedule. Such a penalty
may be appealed in the same fashion as set forth in §
110.03(C).
(Prior Code, § 731.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.03 FALSIFICATION OF CREDENTIALS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS.
   (A)   No person shall make any false statement or give any false or
misleading information or omit any information requested in the application
required by §
110.02.
   (B)   Should subsequent information disclose that an applicant has falsified
any information required in such application, the Fiscal Officer shall
forthwith revoke such registration and notify the holder thereof either in
person or by certified mail of the actions so taken. Such remedy shall be in
addition to any penalty provided in §
110.99.
   (C)   Any person whose registration is so revoked may, within ten days after
receipt of the revocation notice, appeal to the Mayor by filing with the Mayor
a signed written statement briefly setting forth his or her ground of appeal.
The Mayor shall forthwith set a time and place for hearing such appeal and give
the appellant due notice thereof by certified mail. The appellant may appear
before the Mayor in person or by an attorney. The decision of the Mayor thereon
shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 731.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE UPON REQUEST.
   (A)   Any police officer or the Zoning Inspector may require any person
found engaged in the provision of services as a construction contractor to
produce his, her or their credentials, and to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Every holder of registered credentials, when engaged in the provisions
of services as a construction contractor, shall, upon the request of any owner
or occupancy of such lot or land, exhibit for examination his or her
credentials issued pursuant to the provision of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every holder of registered credentials, when engaged in the provision
of services as a construction contractor, shall carry and possess his, her or
its credentials at all times while present in the village.
(Prior Code, § 731.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
§ 110.15 VSP FEES.
   (A)   Council hereby establishes a VSP fee that is calculated by applying a
VSP fee percentage of 5% to the video service provider’s gross revenues as
defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law. All video service providers and
cable television operators providing video service in the village shall apply
the VSP fee percentage against gross revenues as defined in the Video Law.
   (B)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by this Council
above, which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice
from such video service provider that it will begin providing video service in
the village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Prior Code, § 741.01) (Ord. 09-3, passed 3-17-2009)
MEDICAL/RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATORS, PROCESSORS AND RETAIL DISPENSERS
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. The same defined in R.C. § 3719.01, also referred to as
“marihuana.”
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is cultivated, processed, tested,
dispensed, possessed or used for a medical purpose.
(Prior Code, § 761.01) (Ord. O-24-12, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 110.31 COMMERCIALLY CULTIVATING, PROCESSING AND DISPENSING MEDICAL/
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commercially cultivate, process, dispense or sell medical
and/or recreational marijuana within the village.
(Prior Code, § 761.02) (Ord. O-24-12, passed 9-3-2024) Penalty, see §
110.99
BED AND BREAKFAST REGISTRATION AND OPERATION
§ 110.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of lodging that provides four or
fewer rooms for rent on a temporary basis, is the owner, operator or manager’s
legal primary residence, is occupied by the owner, operator or manager at the
time of rental, and where meals may be served to guests.
(Prior Code, § 771.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.46 REGISTRATION.
   Bed and breakfast inns shall require annual registration with the village
subject to an application fee as listed in the village fee schedule established
in §
37.01. Bed and breakfast inns shall be subject to annual inspection, and
inspection at other times upon reasonable notice to the owner. In addition to
meeting the requirements set forth in §
152.087(M), an application for and, if requested, renewal of, a conditional use
permit to engage in the business of bed and breakfast establishment shall be
accompanied by the following information:
   (A)   (1)   Proof of commercial general liability insurance, with limits of
not less than those as listed in the village bond and insurance schedule,
established in §
37.02, per occurrence, for bodily injury and property damage arising in any way
from the issuance of the permit. Each policy of insurance shall:
         (a)   Be issued by an insurer authorized to do business in the state;
and
         (b)   Include a provision requiring 30 days’ advance notice to the
village prior to cancellation or lapse of the policy.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain the insurance required under this section
in full force and effect for the duration of the permit period. A single
violation of this division (A) shall result in revocation of the permit by the
Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   A statement as to whether the owner or any controlling person has ever
been convicted in any jurisdiction of any felony;
   (C)   Proof that the owner has legal title to the property on which the
establishment is located;
   (D)   A written statement that the establishment shall be the owner,
operator or manager’s legal primary residence throughout the duration of the
license period;
   (E)   A copy of an evacuation diagram;
   (F)   A valid certificate of registration in food handling and sanitation
issued by the Department of Health;
   (G)   A telephone number and other appropriate contact information, where a
responsible party can be reached at all times during business and non-business
hours; and
   (H)   Proof that a telephone number and other appropriate contact
information, where a responsible party can be reached at all times during
business and non-business hours, has been submitted to the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 771.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of bed and
breakfast inns to:
   (A)   Exceed the scope of the permit, as set forth in this subchapter;
   (B)   Rent any sleeping room in the establishment for more than two
continuous weeks to any person other than members of the owner’s family as
outlined in §§
152.085 through
152.089. There shall be at least a four-night break of occupancy before any
guest who has rented a sleeping room anywhere at the facility up to the two
continuous week limit shall be permitted to rent another room;
   (C)   Use or permit the use of a hot plate, coffee maker or other cooking
device in any sleeping room or bathroom;
   (D)   Permit any criminal activity or public nuisance to take place on the
premises. If an owner knows or suspects that any criminal activity or public
nuisance is taking place on or immediately adjacent to the premises, the owner
shall immediately notify the New Franklin Police Department of such fact, and
shall cooperate with the New Franklin Police Department in any investigation
that may ensue; or
   (E)   Knowingly make any false or incomplete or misleading statement about
such person’s criminal background in connection with any application submitted
pursuant to this subchapter. A single violation of this division (E) shall
result in permit revocation.
(Prior Code, § 771.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.48 TRANSIENT GUEST TAX APPLIES.
   The transient guest tax as forth in §§
36.001 through
36.027, as well as all other applicable taxes, apply to bed and breakfast
establishments.
(Prior Code, § 771.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION AND OPERATION
§ 110.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The conditional or permitted use of all or part of a
dwelling unit, by rental or short-term occupancy for dwelling, sleeping or
lodging. SHORT-TERM RENTALS include the arrangement of such rental by the owner
through a booking agent in connection with Airbnb or similar internet sites,
any other type of advertising or notification, or similar agreement.
(Prior Code, § 781.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.61 REGISTRATION.
   Any dwelling offered as a short-term rental shall require annual
registration with the village subject to an application fee as listed in the
village fee schedule established in §
37.01. Short-term rentals shall be subject to annual inspection, and inspection
at other times upon reasonable notice to the owner. In addition to meeting the
requirements set forth in §
152.210(D)(17), an application for and, if requested, renewal of, a conditional
use permit to use a property as a short-term rental, shall be accompanied by
the following information:
   (A)   (1)   Proof of commercial general liability insurance, with limits of
not less than those as listed in the village bond and insurance schedule,
established in §
37.02, per occurrence, for bodily injury and property damage arising in any way
from the issuance of the permit. Each policy of insurance shall:
         (a)   Be issued by an insurer authorized to do business in the state;
and
         (b)   Include a provision requiring 30 days’ advance notice to the
village prior to cancellation or lapse of the policy.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain the insurance required under this section
in full force and effect for the duration of the permit period. A single
violation of this division (A) shall result in revocation of the permit by the
Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   A statement as to whether the owner or any controlling person has ever
been convicted in any jurisdiction of any felony;
   (C)   Proof that the owner has legal title to the property on which the
short-term rental is located;
   (D)   A copy of an evacuation diagram;
   (E)   A telephone number and other appropriate contact information, where a
responsible party can be reached at all times during business and non-business
hours; and
   (F)   Proof that a telephone number and other appropriate contact
information, where a responsible party can be reached at all times during
business and non-business hours, has been submitted to the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 781.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.62 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of a short-term
rental to:
   (A)   Exceed the scope of the permit as set forth in this subchapter;
   (B)   Guests, other than members of the owners’ family, to be permitted to
reside at the facility for longer than 30 consecutive days. There shall be at
least a one-week break of occupancy before any guest who has stayed anywhere at
the facility up to the 30 continuous day limit shall be permitted to rent
again;
   (C)   Permit any criminal activity or public nuisance to take place on the
premises. If an owner knows or suspects that any criminal activity or public
nuisance is taking place on or immediately adjacent to the premises, the owner
shall immediately notify the New Franklin Police Department of such fact, and
shall cooperate with the New Franklin Police Department in any investigation
that may ensue; or
   (D)   Knowingly make any false or incomplete or misleading statement about
such person’s criminal background in connection with any application submitted
pursuant to this subchapter. A single violation of this division (D) shall
result in permit revocation.
(Prior Code, § 781.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation violating
any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.04 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree for a subsequent offense, upon conviction
thereof, each offense shall be fined up to separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 731.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
110.30 or
110.31 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day that any person
continues to violate §§
110.30 or
110.31 shall constitute a separate and complete offense.
(Prior Code, § 761.99)
(Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-24-12, passed 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Uninvited peddling and soliciting prohibited
   
111.02   Ice cream vendors
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Exceptions
   
111.05   Waivers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see R.C. Chapter 1716
   Home solicitation sales, see R.C. §§ 1345.21 et seq.
   Power to regulate, see R.C. § 715.61
§ 111.01 UNINVITED PEDDLING AND SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon the premises of private residences
within the corporate limits of the village, by solicitors or vendors of
merchandise or services who have not been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of the private residences, is hereby declared to be an
unlawful public endeavor within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above also apply to uninvited
solicitations in and upon premises of commercial businesses and professional
offices when such solicitations are directed to the individual employees or
occupants of the businesses or offices for their personal use or consumption
and are not directly or indirectly related to the normal course of business of
the establishment visited.
(Prior Code, § 721.01) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 ICE CREAM VENDORS.
   The curbside vending of any ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or frozen
desserts of any type from any motorized or non-motorized vehicle is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 721.02) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER OR ITINERANT RETAILER. Any person who carries those goods,
merchandise or articles of value referred to in this section on his or her
person or in the vicinity for delivery the same day.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. Any motorized or non-motorized vehicle in which ice cream,
popsicles, ice sherbets or frozen desserts of any kind are carried for purposes
of retail sale on the streets and sidewalks of the village.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person, natural or artificial, who engages in or
conducts a temporary or transient business of selling goods, wares and
merchandise within the village, but does not intend to continue in such
business in any one location for more than four months and who, for the purpose
of carrying on such business, hires, leases or occupies in whole or in part any
room, building or structure for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares
and merchandise.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells, offers for sale, barters or exchanges any
goods, wares, produce, merchandise or other articles of value at any place in,
upon, along or through the streets, alleys or other public ways or places of
the village or from house to house.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who, without prior request, or without being invited
to do so by the owner or occupant of a private residence, attempts to sell or
solicit orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of
value, including magazines, periodicals or books to be delivered at a later
time.
   VEND or VENDING. The offering of any ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or
frozen desserts for sale from any vehicle on the streets and sidewalks of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 721.03) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006)
§ 111.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any sale under the order of a court or at a bona fide auction;
   (B)   Any sale at wholesale to a retail dealer;
   (C)   Four or more itinerant vendors associated together in an enterprise
such as a flea market, stamp or coin collectors’ house, trade show or the like;
   (D)   Any fraternal, civic or service organization conducting an occasional
sale, market or other fundraising enterprise for charitable or civic purposes;
or
   (E)   Any local religious group or representative thereof offering or
soliciting orders for periodicals, tracts or publications of such religious
group.
(Prior Code, § 721.04) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006)
§ 111.05 WAIVERS.
   Council may, under extenuating circumstances and for just cause with regard
to the protection of the public, waive the provisions of this chapter as it, in
its sole discretion, deems appropriate or necessary, by resolution of Council
duly recorded in its minutes.
(Prior Code, § 721.05) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor, upon
conviction thereof, each offense shall be fined up to the maximum penalty
allowed pursuant the state statutes. Each day’s violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 721.99) (Ord. 06-21, passed 6-20-2006; Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-
20-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
   
130.22   Conspiracy
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C.§ 737.10 as a special
patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and during the
time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (Prior Code, § 501.01)
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Prior Code, § 501.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03) (Prior Code, § 501.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Prior Code, § 501.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Prior Code, § 501.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Prior Code, § 501.07)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Prior Code, § 501.08)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Prior Code, § 501.11)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Prior Code, § 501.12)
 
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Prior Code, § 501.09)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Prior Code, § 501.10)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self- defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self- defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. A building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over it
and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. A dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily or
permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. A conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that is
designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Prior Code, § 501.05)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An organized police department of a
township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the office of
a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08
or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the operation of a
vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state correctional institution
when the trial court specifies that it is to be served consecutively. When
consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and prison terms are
imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies under this
division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive terms
imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony before
serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self- defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.22 CONSPIRACY.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit or to promote or facilitate the
commission of aggravated murder, murder, kidnapping, abduction, compelling
prostitution, promoting prostitution, trafficking in persons, aggravated arson,
arson, aggravated robbery, robbery, aggravated burglary, burglary, trespassing
in a habitation when a person is present or likely to the present, engaging in
a pattern of corrupt activity, corrupting another with drugs, a felony drug
trafficking, manufacturing, processing or possession offense, theft of drugs or
illegal processing of drug documents, the commission of a felony offense of
unauthorized use of a vehicle, illegally transmitting multiple commercial
electronic mail messages or unauthorized access of a computer in violation of
R.C. § 2923.421 or the commission of a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   With another person or persons, plan or aid in planning the
commission of any of the specified offenses; or
      (2)   Agree with another person or persons that one or more of them will
engage in conduct that facilitates the commission of any of the specified
offenses.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of conspiracy unless a substantial overt
act in furtherance of the conspiracy is alleged and proved to have been done by
the accused or a person with whom the accused conspired, subsequent to the
accused’s entrance into the conspiracy. For purposes of this section, an overt
act is substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the
part of the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (C)   When the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
person with whom the offender conspires also has conspired or is conspiring
with another to commit the same offense, the offender is guilty of conspiring
with that other person, even though the other person’s identity may be unknown
to the offender.    
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the conspiracy was impossible
under the circumstances.
   (E)   A conspiracy terminates when the offense or offenses that are its
objects are committed or when it is abandoned by all conspirators. In the
absence of abandonment, it is no defense to a charge under this section that no
offense that was the object of the conspiracy was committed.
   (F)   A person who conspires to commit more than one offense is guilty of
only one conspiracy, when the offenses are the object of the same agreement or
continuous conspiratorial relationship.
   (G)   When a person is convicted of committing or attempting to commit a
specific offense or of complicity in the commission of or attempt to commit the
specific offense, the person shall not be convicted of conspiracy involving the
same offense.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall be convicted of conspiracy upon the testimony of
a person with whom the defendant conspired, unsupported by other evidence.
      (2)   If a person with whom the defendant allegedly has conspired
testifies against the defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged
with conspiracy and if the testimony is supported by other evidence, the court,
when it charges the jury, shall state substantially the following:
            “The testimony of an accomplice that is supported by other evidence
does not become inadmissible because of the accomplice's complicity, moral
turpitude or self-interest, but the admitted or claimed complicity of a witness
may affect the witness’ credibility and make the witness’ testimony subject to
grave suspicion, and requires that it be weighed with great caution.
            It is for you, as jurors, in light of all the facts presented to
you from the witness stand, to evaluate such testimony and to determine its
quality and worth or its lack of quality and worth.”
      (3)   (a)   Conspiracy, as used in division (H)(1) of this section, does
not include any conspiracy that results in an attempt to commit an offense or
in the commission of an offense.
         (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge of
conspiracy:
            1.   After conspiring to commit an offense, the actor thwarted the
success of the conspiracy under circumstances manifesting a complete and
voluntary renunciation of the actor’s criminal purpose; and
            2.   After conspiring to commit an offense, the actor abandoned the
conspiracy prior to the commission of or attempt to commit any offense that was
the object of the conspiracy, either by advising all other conspirators of the
actor’s abandonment, or by informing any law enforcement authority of the
existence of the conspiracy and of the actor’s participation in the conspiracy.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of conspiracy, which is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, when the most serious offense that is the
object of the conspiracy is a felony of the fifth degree.
   (J)   This section does not define a separate conspiracy offense or penalty
where conspiracy is defined as an offense by one or more sections of this code,
other than this section. In such a case, however:
      (1)   With respect to the offense specified as the object of the
conspiracy in the other section or sections, division (A) of this section
defines the voluntary act or acts and culpable mental state necessary to
constitute the conspiracy; and
      (2)   Divisions (B) to (H) of this section are incorporated by reference
in the conspiracy offense defined by the other section or sections of this
code.
   (K)   (1)   In addition to the penalties that otherwise are imposed for
conspiracy, a person who is found guilty of conspiracy to engage in a pattern
of corrupt activity is subject to R.C. § 2923.32(B)(2) and (B)(3), R.C. §
2981.04(A) and R.C. § 2981.06(D).
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to conspiracy and if
the most serious offense that is the object of the conspiracy is a felony drug
trafficking, manufacturing, processing or possession offense, in addition to
the penalties or sanctions that may be imposed for the conspiracy under
division (I) of this section and R.C. Chapter 2929, both of the following
apply:
         (a)   The provisions of R.C. § 2925.03(D), (F) and (G), R.C. § 2925.04
(D), R.C. § 2925.05(D), R.C. § 2925.06(D) and R.C. § 2925.11(E) that pertain to
mandatory and additional fines, driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit suspensions, and professionally licensed persons and that would apply
under the appropriate provisions of those divisions to a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to the felony drug trafficking, manufacturing,
processing or possession offense that is the most serious offense that is the
basis of the conspiracy shall apply to the person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to the conspiracy as if the person had been convicted or pleaded guilty
to the felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing or possession offense
that is the most serious offense that is the basis of the conspiracy; and
         (b)   The court that imposes sentence upon the person who is convicted
of or pleads guilty to the conspiracy shall comply with the provisions
identified as being applicable under division (K)(2) of this section, in
addition to any other penalty or sanction that it imposes for the conspiracy
under division (I) of this section and R.C. Chapter 2929.
   (L)   As used in this section:
      (1)   Felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing or possession
offense means any of the following that is a felony:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.05 or 2925.06; or
         (b)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 that is not a minor drug
possession offense.
      (2)   Minor drug possession offense has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
(R.C. § 2923.01)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real- time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§ 130.18 and 133.99 of this code or
R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is required by law, in
sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, the
sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
(Prior Code, § 501.99)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
   Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
   
131.36   Railroads
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Prior Code, § 545.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03) (Prior Code, § 541.02)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (Prior Code, § 541.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) (Prior Code, § 541.03)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09) (Prior Code, § 541.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. To change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or any fire
escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life line, life-
saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm, light, flare,
signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency, or intended
for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety barricade, or any
traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign, signal, or gate,
or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device, apparatus, or
equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of persons or
property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Prior Code, § 541.04)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring- operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF- HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY.
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21) (Prior Code, § 541.05)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211) (Prior Code, § 541.051)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23) (Prior Code, § 541.10)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Prior Code, § 545.12)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)   If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Prior Code, § 545.05)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Prior Code, § 545.06)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 545.08) 
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Prior Code, § 545.09)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Prior Code, § 545.10)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33) (Prior Code, § 545.11)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Prior Code, § 545.14)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Prior Code, § 545.15)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45) (Prior Code, § 545.17)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Prior Code, § 545.18)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 545.02)
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Prior Code, § 545.03)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 541.06)
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041) (Prior Code, § 545.04)
Statutory reference:
Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. That a statement, in whole or in part, would cause another
to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation, withholds
information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other conduct,
act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Any person that is authorized to engage in the business of
insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. A policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued by an
insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Participating in any trade, occupation, business, service,
or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Any medical, professional, financial, or business record
relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services provided
to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any person,
or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires pursuant
to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Any compensation or benefits payable
under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Any medical, professional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Medicaid
Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRE- SENTATION. Any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Any real or personal property or other asset in which a
person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
(Prior Code, § 545.07)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2)) (Prior Code, § 545.20)
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) (Prior Code, § 545.13)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44) (Prior Code, § 545.16)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. To interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter, conduit or
attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a meter or the
proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the amount of
utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Any electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company, as
defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees, trustees
or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. The capability of a device to record or
transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. A movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10) (Prior Code, § 553.04)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101) (Prior Code, § 553.05)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11) (Prior Code, § 541.07)
§ 131.36 RAILROADS.
   (A)   Obstructing streets by railroad companies.
      (1)   (a)   No railroad company shall obstruct or permit or cause to be
obstructed a public street, road or highway by permitting a railroad car,
locomotive or other obstruction to remain upon or across it for longer than
five minutes to the hindrance or inconvenience of travelers or a person passing
along or upon such street, road or highway.
         (b)   At the end of each five-minute period of obstruction of a public
street, road or highway, each railroad company shall cause such railroad car,
locomotive or other obstruction to be removed for sufficient time, not less
than three minutes, to allow the passage of persons and vehicles waiting to
cross.
         (c)   This section does not apply to obstruction of a public street,
road or highway by a continuously moving through train or caused by
circumstances wholly beyond the control of the railroad company, but does apply
to other obstructions, including without limitation those caused by stopped
trains and trains engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
         (d)   If a railroad car, locomotive or other obstruction is
obstructing a public street, road or highway in violation of division (A)(1)(a)
of this section and the violation occurs in the unincorporated area of one or
more counties, or in one or more municipal corporations, the officers and
employees of each affected county or municipal corporation may charge the
railroad company with only one violation of the law arising from the same facts
and circumstances and the same act.
         (e)   Upon the filing of an affidavit or complaint for violation of
this division (A)(1), summons shall be issued to the railroad company pursuant
to R.C. § 2935.10(B), which summons shall be served on the regular ticket or
freight agent of the company in the county where the offense occurred.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, railroad company includes the
officers, employees and agents of such company.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 553.01)
   (B)   Obstructing streets by abandoning the locomotive.
      (1)   No railroad company shall obstruct, or permit or cause to be
obstructed, a public street, road or highway, by permitting any part of a train
whose crew has abandoned the locomotive to remain across it for longer than
five minutes to the hindrance or inconvenience of travelers or a person passing
along or upon the street, road or highway, unless the safety of the train crew
requires them to abandon the locomotive.
      (2)   Upon the filing of an affidavit or complaint for violation of this
section, summons shall be issued to the railroad company pursuant to R.C. §
2935.10(B), which summons shall be served on the regular ticket or freight
agent of the company in the county where the offense occurred.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 553.011)
   (C)   Climbing upon railroad cars.
      (1)   No person shall climb, jump, step or stand upon or cling or attach
himself or herself to a locomotive, engine or car upon the track of a railroad,
unless in compliance with law or by permission under the rules of the
corporation managing such railroad.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 553.02)
   (D)   Duties of locomotive engineer.
      (1)   No person in charge of a locomotive shall fail to bring the
locomotive to a full stop at least 200 feet before arriving at a crossing with
another track, or proceed through the crossing before signaled to do so or
before the way is clear.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If violation of this misdemeanor causes physical harm to any
person, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Prior Code, § 553.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. §§ 4999.02, 4999.04, 5589.21, 5589.211 and
5589.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
   
132.16   Curfew
   
132.17   Noise from vehicles
   
132.18   Unlawful noise or disturbances
   
132.19   Noise from equipment
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
(Prior Code, § 509.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Prior Code, § 509.02)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right- of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Prior Code, § 509.03)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Prior Code, § 509.04)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Prior Code, § 509.05)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the tele- communication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. The person described in division (A) of this section who makes or
causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a telecommunication to be
made from a telecommunications device under that person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm
suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term includes but
is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who
otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise has cohabited with
the recipient within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of
the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Prior Code, § 537.10)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education or any school for
which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one- quarter ounce, mine, or
similar device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Prior Code, § 509.06)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Prior Code, § 509.07)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01) (Prior Code, § 509.11)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441) (Prior Code, § 525.14)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51) (Prior Code, § 525.03)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that has
walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited to
a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORM- ANCE. Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
§ 132.16 CURFEW.
   (A)   No child under the age of 18 years shall be on the streets or
sidewalks of the village between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day, local time, unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or an adult person
having the legal care, custody and control of his or her person;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult person having the permission of one of the
persons mentioned in division (A)(1) of this section; or
      (3)   Such person is going directly to or from any lawful activity,
entertainment or employment with knowledge and consent of the parent, guardian
or adult person having the legal care, custody and control of his or her
person.
   (B)   No parent, guardian or other person having the care, control or
custody of a minor child under the age of 18 years shall fail to keep such
child off the streets or sidewalks of the village between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, local time unless:
      (1)   Such child is accompanied by such parent, guardian or other adult
person having permission from such parent or guardian to accompany such child;
or
      (2)   Such parent or guardian has consented to such child’s going to or
coming from any lawful activity, entertainment or employment.
   (C)   No adult person shall be in the company of any child under the age of
18 years on the streets or sidewalks of the village between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, local time, unless such adult person
has the permission from the parent or guardian to be in the company of such
child during such hours.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. If the offender has previously been convicted of a violation
of division (A) or (B) of this section, a subsequent violation is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 509.08) (Ord. 93-29, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 132.17 NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle within the village
shall operate or amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape player or other
sound making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle so that the
sound is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
motor vehicle equipped with any communication device necessary in the
performance of law enforcement duties or to any emergency vehicle equipped with
any communication device necessary in the performance of any emergency
procedures.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the noise made by a
horn or other warning device required or permitted by state law.
   (D)   PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound produced by a radio, tape player or
other mechanical or electronic soundmaking device, or instrument, from within
the interior or exterior of a motor vehicle, including sound produced by a
portable soundmaking device, that can be clearly heard outside the vehicle by a
person using his or her normal hearing faculties, at a distance of 100 feet or
more from the motor vehicle.
   (E)   Any law enforcement personnel who hears a sound that is plainly
audible as defined herein, shall be entitled to measure the sound according to
the following standards.
      (1)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the officer’s
ordinary auditory senses, so long as the officer’s hearing is not enhanced by
any mechanical device.
      (2)   The officer must have a direct line of sight and hearing to the
motor vehicle producing the sound so that he or she can readily identify the
offending motor vehicle and the distance involved.
      (3)   The officer need not determine the particular words or phrases
being produced or the name of any song or artist producing the sound. The
detection of a rhythmic bass reverberating type sound is sufficient to
constitute a plainly audible sound.
   (F)   The motor vehicle from which the sound is produced must be located
(stopped, standing or moving) within the village. Parking lots and driveways
are included.
   (G)   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 509.09) (Ord. 02-13, passed 6-4-2002)
§ 132.18 UNLAWFUL NOISE OR DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated unreasonable noise
or loud sound which is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities by means of a radio, television, stereo, loudspeaker or
any other sound amplifying device or by any horn, drum, piano or other musical
or percussion instrument.
   (B)   It is prima facie unlawful for a person to generate or permit to be
generated sound by the devices or instruments described in division (A) of this
section, or by any other means of generating sound, in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   On private property or from a property zoned conservation,
residential, business or industrial. Regardless of existing non-conforming use
or variance, where the sound is audible more than 80 feet from the property
line of the property on which the source of the sound is located;
      (2)   On a street, highway or in the public right-of-way where the sound
is audible 100 feet from the device generating the sound; or
      (3)   In any situation where the sound being generated is in violation of
division (C) of this section.
   (C)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated any noise or loud
sound between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. that is not in compliance
with the following provisions.
      (1)   Conservation and residential districts. In Districts CD, R-1, R-
2 and R-3, no person shall produce noise or sound in such a manner as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or any a
volume which is plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the
household containing such noise or sound.
      (2)   Business districts. In Districts B-1 and B-2, no person shall
produce noise or sound in such a manner as to be heard, by an ordinary person,
more than 50 feet away from the property line from which the sound emanates.
      (3)   Industrial district. In District I-1, no person shall produce noise
or sound in such a manner as to be heard, by an ordinary person, more than 80
feet away from the property line from which the sound emanates.
   (D)   No person, being the owner, or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premises by reason of employment, agency or otherwise
whether such ownership, possession or control is exclusive or joint, shall
permit a violation of this section.
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Audible warning devices on emergency or public safety vehicles when
responding to situations in an emergency mode in conjunction with the use of an
emergency warning light;
      (2)   Building and vehicle alarms, unless there is a history of recurrent
false activation of such devices;
      (3)   Construction equipment involved in the emergency repair or
stabilization of a structure or facility after the accidental damage of or
failure of such structure or facility, with the consent of the Mayor and/or his
or her designee;
      (4)   Any event sponsored for the enjoyment of the community at large
where the public is invited to attend;
      (5)   Warning devices such as horns, whistles and the like, when used to
warn of a potentially dangerous and/or hazardous condition, but only for the
duration of that condition;
      (6)   Warning devices, security alarms, vehicle or equipment backing
alarms, and other devices required by law; or
      (7)   Refuse collection occurring between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (F)   The enforcement shall be as follows.
      (1)   Complaints of noise nuisances shall be investigated by law
enforcement personnel at the source of the complaint.
      (2)   PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any unreasonable noise or loud sound that can
be clearly heard by a person using his or her normal hearing faculties.
      (3)   Any law enforcement personnel who hears a sound that is plainly
audible as defined herein, shall be entitled to measure the sound according to
the following standard.
         (a)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the
officer’s ordinary auditory senses, so long as the officer’s hearing is not
enhanced by any mechanical device.
         (b)   The officer must have a direct line of sight and hearing to the
source that the sound is coming from so that he or she can readily identify the
offending source and the distance involved.
         (c)   The officer need not determine the particular words or phrases
being produced or the name of any song or artist producing the sound. The
detection of a rhythmic bass reverberating type sound is sufficient to
constitute a plainly audible sound.
      (4)   Factors to be considered in determining whether a violation has
occurred shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The volume of the noise;
         (b)   The intensity of the noise;
         (c)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
         (d)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
         (e)   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any;
         (f)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
         (g)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
         (h)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
         (i)   The duration of the noise; and
         (j)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
      (5)   Upon the investigation of a noise nuisance complaint, the law
enforcement officer shall determine whether a citation is necessary.
   (G)   Penalties for this section are as follows.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of generating an
unreasonable noise and a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the offender persists in generating or permitting to be
generated unreasonable noise after reasonable warning or request to desist,
generating unreasonable noise is guilty of persistent generating of an
unreasonable noise and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section involves sound equipment that is
portable or in a motor vehicle, both the sound equipment and the motor vehicle,
if applicable, are hereby deemed contraband and subject to seizure and
forfeiture under R.C. §§ 2981.01 through 2981.14.
(Prior Code, § 509.10) (Ord. O-18-12, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. O-18-21, passed
11-20-2018)
§ 132.19 NOISE FROM EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, run or operate any steam, gas or other
engine, boiler, press, machine or any other apparatus so constructed or
operated as to make any unnecessary noise, to the annoyance and discomfort of
the people of the village.
   (B)   No person being the owner, or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premise or person in control of the premises by reason
of employment, agency or otherwise, whether such ownership, possession or
control is exclusive or joint, shall permit a violation of this section.
   (C)   For sound levels for land use districts, see §
132.18(C).
   (D)   It is prima facie unlawful for a person to generate or permit to be
generated sound in violation of divisions (A) through (C) of this section.
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Audible warning devices on emergency or public safety vehicles when
responding to situations in an emergency mode in conjunction with the use of an
emergency warning light;
      (2)   Building and vehicle alarms, unless there is a history of recurrent
false activation of such devices;
      (3)   Construction equipment involved in the emergency repair or
stabilization of a structure or facility after the accidental damage of or
failure of such structure or facility, with the consent of the Mayor and/or his
or her designee;
      (4)   Any event sponsored for the enjoyment of the community at large
where the public is invited to attend;
      (5)   Warning devices such as horns, whistles and the like, when used to
warn of a potentially dangerous and/or hazardous condition, but only for the
duration of that condition;
      (6)   Warning devices, security alarms, vehicle or equipment backing
alarms and other devices required by law; or
      (7)   Refuse collection occurring between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (F)   For enforcement, see §
132.18(G).
   (G)   Penalties for violations of this section are as follows.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of generating an
unreasonable noise and a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the offender persists in generating or permitting to be
generated unreasonable noise after reasonable warning or request to desist,
generating unreasonable noise is guilty of persistent generating of an
unreasonable noise and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 509.11) (Ord. O-18-12, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. O-18-21, passed
11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Prior Code, § 533.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another when the offender knows the other person is 13 years of
age or older but less than 16 years of age, or the offender is reckless in that
regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Prior Code, § 533.03)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another; cause another to
have sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to
have sexual contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Prior Code, § 533.04)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child- victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
(Prior Code, § 533.07) 
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Prior Code, § 533.06)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Any mechanical or electrical instrument or device
of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an individual
for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. The prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. A violation of any provision of §§ 133.02 to 133.05 or R.C.
§§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOP- MENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
(Prior Code, § 533.08)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24) (Prior Code, § 533.09)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) (Prior Code, § 533.091)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Prior Code, § 533.10)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) (Prior Code, § 533.11)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Prior Code, § 533.02)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311) (Prior Code, § 533.13)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33) (Prior Code, § 533.12)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An entity that is open to the public and to
which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Films, videos, CD-ROM discs, streaming
video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited in
which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   A commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration,
has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-trade in, derives a
significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a significant
or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to, or maintains
a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale or rental of
any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, period- icals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. The sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form of
consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTAB- LISHMENT. An adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live performances that are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or any other
form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling class or
studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to this
chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course
of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTAB- LISHMENT.
         (a)   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17) (Prior Code, § 533.14)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. To post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. A photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. A provider of internet service, including all of the
following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill- based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill- based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill- based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill- based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in § 134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Prior Code, § 517.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Prior Code, § 517.02)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Prior Code, § 517.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Prior Code, § 517.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Prior Code, § 517.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09) (Prior Code, § 517.06)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10) (Prior Code, § 517.11)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11) (Prior Code, § 517.12)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections 134.06 through 134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games
that are conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted
for the purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements
specified in either division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12) (Prior Code, § 517.13)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091) (Prior Code, § 517.07)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092) (Prior Code, § 517.08)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093) (Prior Code, § 517.09)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13) (Prior Code, § 517.14)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094) (Prior Code, § 517.10)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
(Prior Code, § 517.15)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Reserved
   
135.12   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09) (Prior Code, § 537.01)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-
truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a reckless operation offense,
provided that this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or
whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the reckless operation offense in the
construction zone and does not apply as described in division (D) of this
section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-
truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that
this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose
pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of
the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and
does not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MINI-TRUCK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
         UTILITY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06) (Prior Code, § 537.02)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck, shall cause serious
physical harm to another person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of
committing, while operating or participating in the operation of a motor
vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a
speeding offense, provided that this division applies only if the person to
whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose unborn the serious
physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the time of the
offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G)) (Prior Code, § 537.021)
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Prior Code, § 537.03)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Prior Code, § 537.04)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the
responder’s official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Prior Code, § 537.06)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Prior Code, § 537.05)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related
in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (C)(1)
(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Prior Code, § 537.051)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Prior Code, § 537.08)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Prior Code, § 537.09)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 RESERVED.
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider’s
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider’s facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care” includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows a minor
in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person applying
contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows a
minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
(Prior Code, §§ 537.07, 537.17)
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with the
offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with
the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Prior Code, § 537.14)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to do
any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing serious
physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Knowingly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. The use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute for
treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Any developmental disabilities
employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The
phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care facility and a person who
is an employee of an entity under contract with a provider. The phrase does not
include a person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who is
an agent of a care facility unless that person also personally provides care to
a person with a developmental disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrim- ination on account of race,
color, religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national
origin, military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in
that section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12) (Prior Code, § 541.08)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI- STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27) (Prior Code, § 537.15)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 537.13)
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. To furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any device that can be used to deliver
aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling
from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any component,
part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately, and
includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use
of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug, device,
or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§
321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that is made or derived from tobacco or
that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human consumption or
is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a
cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component or accessory used
in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers,
pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic smoking devices,
whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not include any product
that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or
described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. A product, other than a cigarette or other tobacco
product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or derived
from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee of a
seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is
subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
(Prior Code, § 537.16)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031) (Prior Code, § 521.10)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
   
136.22   Compliance with the United States Constitution and the Ohio
Constitution
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Prior Code, § 525.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102) (Prior Code, § 525.02)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Prior Code, § 525.04)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Prior Code, § 525.05)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) (Prior Code, § 525.06)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Prior Code, § 525.07)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Prior Code, § 525.08)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Prior Code, § 525.09)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Prior Code, § 525.10)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Prior Code, § 525.11)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Prior Code, § 525.12)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Prior Code, § 525.13)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) (Prior Code, § 525.15)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
(Prior Code, § 537.18)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships, counties,
school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized
under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in
geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation the
state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15) (Prior Code, § 525.16)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B)) (Prior Code, § 537.12)
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
(Prior Code, § 525.17)
§ 136.22 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION AND THE OHIO
CONSTITUTION.
   All law enforcement officers of the village shall comply with the
appropriate and duly enacted federal immigration laws, the Constitution of the
State of Ohio and the Constitution of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 525.18) (Ord. O-21-09, passed 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Discharging firearms
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
   
137.15   Throwing or shooting missiles
    
137.16   Second Amendment sanctuary
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or temporary
emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or
R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued by another
state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity agreement
under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Prior Code, § 549.01)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Prior Code, § 549.02)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15) (Prior Code, § 549.03)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all- purpose vehicle as defined in
R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all- purpose vehicle as defined in
R.C. § 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle
that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of
Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. The Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit in the
Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is created
by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Prior Code, § 549.04)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24) (Prior Code, § 545.19)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (Prior Code, § 549.05)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Information regarding the transfer of a
firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a legal
transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Prior Code, § 549.06)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) (Prior Code, § 549.07)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol or other firearm within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self-defense, in
the discharge of official duty, hunting or target practice, to the extent and
or when otherwise lawfully authorized under the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code or the common law.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 549.08) (Ord. O-20-21, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re- enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
(Prior Code, § 549.10)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
         (d)   A fire investigator who is qualified to carry firearms while on
duty under R.C. § 109.774 has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in
this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. §
2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service- connected disability, as determined
by the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         FIRE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 109.71.
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Any private organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. A person who satisfies all of the
following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card that
is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person who is a
retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PRO- FESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Photographic identification issued by the
agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies the
individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201) (Prior Code, § 549.11)
§ 137.15 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet,
stone, metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to
persons or property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of
another, or from any private property into or onto any public place or the
property of another. This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges
or instruction nor when otherwise lawfully authorized.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 549.09)
§ 137.16 SECOND AMENDMENT SANCTUARY.
 
   (A)   Declaration. Through the enactment of the ordinance from which this
section is derived, the village is hereby declared a second amendment
sanctuary.
(Prior Code, § 551.01)
   (B)   Enforcement and use of village assets or funds. Notwithstanding any
other law, regulation, rule or order to the contrary, no agent, department,
employee or official of the village, a political subdivision of the state,
while acting in their official capacity, shall:
      (1)   Knowingly and willingly participate in any way in the enforcement
of any unlawful act, as defined herein, regarding personal firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition; or
      (2)   Utilize any assets, funds of the village or funds allocated by any
entity to the village, in whole or in part, to engage in any activity that aids
in the enforcement of, or any investigation relating to, an unlawful act in
connection with personal firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition.
(Prior Code, § 551.02)
   (C)   Prohibition of unlawful acts. This section does not regulate the
lawful ownership, possession, transfer or transportation of firearms,
ammunition or ammunition components. On the contrary, this section prohibits
the enforcement of unlawful acts and prohibits the use of any entity or asset
of the village, in whole or in part, from engagement in any activity that aids
in the enforcement of, or any investigation relating to, an unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 551.03)
   (D)   Definitions and exceptions.
      (1)   An unlawful act shall consist of any federal or state act, law,
order, rule or regulation, which restricts an individual’s constitutional right
to keep and bear arms, including any federal or state act, law, order, rule or
regulation which bans, or effectively bans, registers or effectively registers,
or limits the lawful use of firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition (other
than a fully automatic firearm manufactured on or after May 19, 1986,
possession of which is generally prohibited under federal law). Any such
unlawful act is invalid in the village and shall not be recognized by the
village, is specifically rejected by the village, and shall be considered null,
void and of no effect in the village, and this includes, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Any tax, levy, fee or stamp imposed on firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition not common to all other goods and services on the
purchase or ownership of those items by citizens;
         (b)   Any registration or tracking of firearms, firearm accessories or
ammunition;
         (c)   Any registration or tracking of the owners of firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition;
         (d)   Any act forbidding the possession, ownership or use or transfer
of any type of firearm, firearm accessory or ammunition by citizens of the
legal age of 18 and over, other than pursuant to federal law background check
requirements for transfers or purchases through FFL dealers;
         (e)   Any act ordering the confiscation of firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition from citizens;
         (f)   Any prohibition, regulation and/or use restriction related to
ownership or the constitutionally guaranteed lawful use or carry of non-fully
automatic firearms; and
         (g)   Any prohibition, regulation and/or use restriction limiting hand
grips, stocks, flash suppressors, bayonet mounts, magazine capacity, clip
capacity, internal capacity, bump stocks, suppressors or types of ammunition
available for sale, possession or use by citizens.
      (2)   Exceptions:
         (a)   The protections provided to citizens by this section do not
apply to persons who are prohibited from possessing firearms under federal or
state law or permanently prohibited from possessing firearms under the laws of
this state and/or village pursuant to conviction in a criminal court;
         (b)   This section is not intended to prohibit or affect in any way
the prosecution of any crime for which the use of, or possession of, a firearm
is an aggravating factor or enhancement to an otherwise independent crime;
         (c)   This section does not permit or otherwise allow the possession
of firearms in federal buildings; or
         (d)   This section does not prohibit individuals in the village from
voluntarily participating in assisting in permitting, licensing, registration
or other processing of applications for a license to carry firearms, a PICS
check or other firearm, firearms accessory or ammunition licensing or
registration process that may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 551.04)
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   Anyone within the jurisdiction of the village accused to be in
violation of this section may be sued in the Common Pleas Court or other court
of competent jurisdiction for declaratory and injunctive relief and damages.
The prevailing party shall be entitled to be reimbursed by the non-prevailing
party for its reasonable attorneys’ fees.
      (2)   Any peace officer may enforce this section.
      (3)   A violation of this section is an offense punishable by a fine of
$300 and/or 90 days imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 551.99)
(Ord. O-21-08, passed 5-6-2021)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha- methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl- 2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy- 2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N-phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4- piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2- phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2- (thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4- fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl] propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl) ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1- methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetra- hydrocannabinol concentration of more
than 0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a barber’s license, barber
instructor’s license, assistant barber instructor’s license, or independent
contractor’s license under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced license to practice cosmetology, advanced license
to practice hair design, advanced license to practice manicuring, advanced
license to practice esthetics, advanced license to practice natural hair
styling, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair design instructor’s license,
manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics instructor’s license, natural hair
style instructor’s license, independent contractor’s license, or tanning
facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01) (Prior Code, § 513.01)
§ 138.02 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl- related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl- related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12) (Prior Code, § 513.04)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F)) (Prior Code, § 513.05)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)) (Prior Code, § 513.06)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Prior Code, § 513.07)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C)) (Prior Code, § 513.08)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) (Prior Code, § 513.11)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511) (Prior Code, § 513.14)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G)) (Prior Code, § 513.13)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14) (Prior Code, § 513.12)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141) (Prior Code, § 513.121)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 513.14)
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 513.15)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPAR- ATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee of a
seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPAR- ATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. The dextrorota- tory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. A document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale to
the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that is
licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
152.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Ohio Building Code
   
150.001   Adoption
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Scope
   
150.004   Compliance
   
150.005   Existing structures
   
150.006   Orders and violations
   
150.007   Unsafe buildings
   
150.008   Conflict
   
150.009   Enforcement
   
150.010   Definition
Exterior Maintenance of Buildings and Residences
   
150.020   Purpose
   
150.021   Definitions
   
150.022   Maintenance responsibilities
   
150.023   Maintenance requirements
   
150.024   Notice of violations; order to comply
   
150.025   Planning Commission
   
150.026   Right of appeal; hearings
Unsafe Structures
   
150.040   Notice to owner
   
150.041   Hearing
   
150.042   Determination of owner
   
150.043   Action by Mayor
Numbering Structures
   
150.055   Numbering required
   
150.056   Address on mailbox
Notice of Foreclosure
   
150.070   Purpose
   
150.071   Application
   
150.072   Notice of foreclosure filing; fee
   
150.073   Person responsible for maintenance
Vacant Property and Building Registration
   
150.085   Purpose
   
150.086   Application
   
150.087   Definitions
   
150.088   Vacant property/building registration
   
150.089   Escrow and bond
   
150.090   Inspections
   
150.091   Vacant building registration fees
   
150.092   Exemptions
   
150.093   Appeals
Board of Nuisance Abatement
   
150.105   Definitions
   
150.106   Board of Nuisance Abatement
   
150.107   Procedure for finding of public nuisance
   
150.108   Service of notice
   
150.109   Appeal procedure
   
150.110   Abatement of nuisance or demolition of structure
   
150.111   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned service stations, see R.C. §§ 3791.12 et seq.
   Application, see R.C. §§ 3781.06, 3781.10(E) and 3781.11(A)
   Authorization by Board of Building Standards, see R.C. § 3781.12
   Automatic sprinkler systems, see R.C. §§ 3781.105 and 3791.041 et seq.
   Dead bolt locks in apartment buildings, see R.C. § 3781.103
   Enforcement, see R.C. §§ 3781.03, 3781.031, 3781.10(E), 3781.102 and 3781.19
   Final jurisdiction, see R.C. § 3781.04
   Fire suppression systems, see R.C. § 3781.108
   Power to enact further and additional regulations, see R.C. § 3781.01
   Power to regulate building numbering, see R.C. § 715.26
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B) and 715.261
   Safety standards for refuse containers, see R.C. § 3791.21
   Smoke detection system for apartments and condominiums, see R.C. § 3781.104
   Submission of plans, see R.C. § 3791.04
   Use of public buildings by persons with a disability, see R.C. § 3781.111
OHIO BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the municipality, the Ohio Building Code (OBC)
and related codes as adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards,
Department of Industrial Relations, effective January 1, 2016, as amended to
date, and as identified and published in O.A.C. Division 4101:1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Ohio Building Code is to establish uniform minimum
requirements for the erection, construction, repair, alteration and maintenance
of buildings, including construction of industrialized units. Such requirements
shall relate to the conservation of energy, safety and sanitation of buildings
for their intended use and occupancy with consideration for the following:
   (A)   Performance. Establish such requirements, in terms of performance
objectives for the use intended;
   (B)   Extent of use. Permit, to the fullest extent feasible, the use of
materials and technical methods, devices, and improvements which tend to reduce
the cost of construction without affecting minimum requirements for the health,
safety and security of the occupants of buildings without preferential
treatment of types or classes of materials or products or methods of
construction; and
   (C)   Standardization.
      (1)   To encourage, so far as may be practicable, the standardization of
construction practices, methods, equipment, material and techniques, including
methods employed to produce industrialized units.
      (2)   The rules of the Board of Building Standards and proceedings shall
be liberally construed in order to promote its purpose. When the Building
Official finds that the proposed design is a reasonable interpretation of the
provisions of this Code, it shall be approved. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Building Official pursuant to § 114 of the Ohio Building Code
shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Ohio Building Code, § 101.3
§ 150.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Application and compliance.
      (1)   The provisions of the Ohio Building Code, the State Mechanical Code
and the State Plumbing Code shall apply to the construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy,
location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every building or structure or
any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures. As
provided in R.C. § 3791.04(B), no plans or specifications shall be approved or
inspection approval given unless the building represented by those plans or
specifications would, if constructed, repaired, erected or equipped according
to those plans or specifications, comply with R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 and
any rules adopted by the Board.
      (2)   An owner may exceed the requirements of the Ohio Building Code in
compliance with § 102.9 of the Ohio Building Code.
      (3)   This Building Code applies to detached one-, two- and three-family
dwellings and structures accessory to those dwellings only to the extent
indicated in § 310 of the Ohio Building Code.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following exceptions apply:
      (1)   Detached one-, two- or three-family dwellings, structures accessory
to those dwellings or those single-family dwellings with five or fewer persons
receiving care in a supervised environment but capable of self-preservation
with or without limited verbal or physical assistance are within the scope of
the Ohio Residential Code for one-, two- or three-family dwellings;
      (2)   Buildings owned by and used for a function of the United States
government;
      (3)   Buildings or structures which are incident to the use for
agricultural purposes of the land on which said buildings or structures are
located; provided such buildings or structures are not used in the business of
retail trade; for the purposes of this section, a building or structure is not
considered used in the business of retail trade if 50% or more of the gross
income received from sales of products in the building or structure by the
owner or operator is from sales of products produced or raised in a normal crop
year on farms owned or operated by the seller (see R.C. §§ 3781.06 and
3781.061);
      (4)   Agricultural labor camps;
      (5)   Type A or Type B family day care homes, except for the inspection
required for licensure by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services
(ODJFS). This required inspection shall be conducted by the certified building
department having jurisdiction or the Division of Industrial Compliance and
Labor in accordance with the inspection checklist found on the Board of
Building Standard’s website;
      (6)   Buildings or structures which are designed, constructed and
maintained in accordance with federal standards and regulations and are used
primarily for federal and state military purposes where the U.S. Secretary of
Defense, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 18233(A)(1) and 18237, has acquired by
purchase, lease or transfer, and constructs, expands, rehabilitates or corrects
and equips, such buildings or structures as he or she determines to be
necessary to carry out the purposes of U.S.C. Chapter 1803;
      (7)   Manufactured homes constructed under 24 C.F.R. part 3280 and within
the scope of the rules adopted by the State Manufactured Home Commission,
including additions, alterations and all utility connections from the utility
service point to the manufactured home. This exception does not apply to
changes of occupancy of manufactured homes, except that a manufactured home
located within a manufactured home park and used by the park operator to
promote the sale/rental of manufactured homes in that part remains exempt;
      (8)   Sewerage systems, treatment works and disposal systems (the tanks,
piping and process equipment associated with these systems), regulated by the
legislative authority of a municipal corporation or the governing board of a
county or special district owning or operating a publicly owned treatment works
or sewerage system as stated in R.C. § 6111.032(A), however a building that
houses such process equipment is within the scope of this Code;
      (9)   Building sewer piping;
      (10)   Amusement rides and portable electric generators and wiring
supplying carnival and amusement park rides regulated by the State Department
of Agriculture pursuant to R.C. Chapter 993;
      (11)   Structures on the premises of and directly related to the
operation of a generating plant defined as a major utility facility regulated
by the Power Siting Board, including the structures associated with generation,
transmission and distribution. As a condition of the Power Siting Board’s
approval, the Building Department may be requested to review and inspect these
structures for compliance with the rules of the Board of Building Standards.
However, the Building Department has no enforcement authority;
      (12)   Structures associated with pipelines used for the transmission of
natural gas and other hydrocarbons;
      (13)   Public water systems (the tanks, foundations, piping and process
equipment associated with these systems) regulated by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency in accordance with R.C. § 6109.07(A), however, a building
that houses such process equipment is within the scope of this Code;
      (14)   Private water systems (the tanks, foundations, piping and process
equipment associated with these systems) regulated by the State Department of
Health in accordance with R.C. § 3701.344, however, a building that houses such
process equipment is within the scope of this Code;
      (15)   Fixed or floating docks (including the electrical wiring, lighting
and fire protection systems serving the docks) at marinas or boatyards, unless
the docks directly serve as a means of egress from, or an accessible route to,
a regulated building located at the marina or boatyard;
      (16)   Portable mobile vehicles which have been issued a vehicle
identification number (VIN) by the United States Department of Transportation.
The vehicles have wheels and license plates and are intended for transportation
on the public streets and highways. Examples of the exempt vehicles include,
but are not limited to, recreational vehicles, book mobiles, blood mobiles,
mobile medical imaging units, mobile concession trailers, network television
transmission and production trailers used at sporting events, mobile restroom
facilities, mobile pet grooming units and the like;
      (17)   Wind turbines, pumps, site lighting and flagpoles not connected to
building services equipment;
      (18)   Mine elevator shafts and structures;
      (19)   Ground signs;
      (20)   Oil or gas beam pumping units and derricks;
      (21)   Bungee jumping and zip line structures, and miniature golf
courses;
      (22)   Retaining walls, bridges, walkways or stairs not associated with a
building or building egress;
      (23)   Primitive transient lodging structures with only provisions for
sleeping, with no building services equipment or piping, and not greater than
400 square feet (37 m2) in area;
      (24)   Intermodal shipping or freight containers, moving containers, or
storage containers, if used exclusively as a storage container temporarily for
a period not to exceed 180 days;
      (25)   Underground storage tanks regulated by the Bureau of Underground
Storage Tank Regulations (BUSTR) of the State Fire Marshal.
      (26)   Mobile computing units as defined in R.C. § 3781.06; and
      (27)   Industrialized units exempt from regulation in accordance with
O.A.C. § 4101:10.
(Prior Code, § 1301.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Ohio Building Code, § 101.2
   State Mechanical Code, see O.A.C. § 4101:2
   State Plumbing Code, see O.A.C. § 4101:3
   State Residential Code, see O.A.C. § 4101:8
§ 150.004 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No owner or any other person shall construct, erect, build or equip
any building or structure to which the Ohio Building Code is applicable, or
make any addition thereto or alteration thereof, except in case of repairs for
maintenance without affecting the construction, sanitation, safety or other
vital feature of such building or structure, without complying with this
chapter, R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or the Ohio Building Code, or fail to
comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
   (B)   No architect, builder, engineer, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman or employee shall violate or assist in
violating this chapter, R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or the Ohio Building Code,
or fail to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
   (C)   No owner shall proceed with the construction, erection, alteration or
equipment of any building to which the Ohio Building Code is applicable until
the plans or drawings, specifications and data have been approved as R.C. §
3791.04 requires, or the industrialized unit inspected at the point of origin.
No plans or specifications shall be approved or inspection approval given
unless the building represented would, if constructed, repaired, erected or
equipped comply with R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 and any rule made under those
chapters.
(Prior Code, § 1301.04)
Cross-reference:
   Ohio Building Code, see §
150.001
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. §§ 3791.01, 3791.02, 3791.03 and 3791.04
§ 150.005 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The provisions of the Ohio Building Code shall control the alteration,
repair, addition, maintenance and change of occupancy of any existing
structure.
   (B)   The occupancy of any structure currently existing on the date of
adoption of this Code shall be permitted to continue without change provided
there are no orders of the Building Official pending, no evidence of fraud or
no serious safety or sanitation hazard. When requested, such approvals shall be
in the form of a certificate of occupancy for an existing building in
accordance with the Ohio Building Code.
   (C)   Buildings constructed in accordance with plans which have been
approved prior to the effective date of this Code are existing buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1301.05)
§ 150.006 ORDERS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Adjudication orders required. When the Building Official denies any
approval or takes action in response to findings of non-compliance with the
rules of the Board, such action shall be initiated by issuing an adjudication
order, prior to seeking any remedy, civil or criminal. Every adjudication order
shall:
      (1)   Clearly identify the section of law or rules violated;
      (2)   Clearly identify, in a contrasting and obviously marked manner, all
violations related to accessibility;
      (3)   Specifically indicate which detail, installation, site preparation,
material, appliance, device, addition, alteration to structures, construction
documents, assemblages or procedures are necessary to change to comply with the
order;
      (4)   When issued to stop work, the order shall also clearly indicate the
specific work that is required to cease, when the work must cease and the
conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume. The order to
stop work shall be given to the owner of the property involved, to the owner’s
agent and the person doing the work;
      (5)   Include notice of the procedure for appeal and right to a hearing
if requested within 30 days of the mailing of the order. The order shall also
indicate that, at the hearing, the owner may be represented by counsel, present
arguments or contentions orally or in writing, and present evidence and examine
witnesses appearing for or against the owner;
      (6)   Any hearing(s) scheduled for accessibility issues shall cause the
Building Official or the Appeals Board to notify a local advocate organization
for people with disabilities of the scheduled hearing. When a local advocate
organization is not available, a state organization representing people with
disabilities, such as the Governor’s Council on People with Disabilities, shall
be notified;
      (7)   Specify a reasonable period of time in which to bring the item(s)
on the order into compliance;
      (8)   Include the signature of the Building Official; and
      (9)   The order shall be sent to the owner and the owner’s
representatives.
   (B)   Response to orders. The person receiving an order shall exercise his,
her or their right to appeal within 30 days of the mailing of the order, comply
with the order or otherwise be released from the order by the Building
Official.
   (C)   Prosecution and penalties. When an owner fails to comply with division
(B) above, the owner may be prosecuted and is subject to the penalty provided
in §
150.999.
   (D)   Unlawful continuance. Failure to cease work after receipt of an order
to stop work is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1301.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Ohio Building Code § 109
§ 150.007 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Unsafe buildings defined. Structures or existing equipment that are
unsafe or unsanitary due to inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate
light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, shall be deemed a serious hazard. Where a building is
found to be a serious hazard, such hazard shall be eliminated or the building
shall be vacated, and where such building, when vacated, remains a serious
hazard, it shall be razed.
   (B)   Orders, injunction proceedings. Where the Building Official finds that
a building is a serious hazard and the owner of such building fails, in the
time specified in an order from the Building Official, to eliminate such
hazard, or to vacate or raze the building, the Building Official shall proceed
under R.C. § 3781.15.
   (C)   Restoration. Where the structure or equipment is determined to be
unsafe by the Building Official, it is permitted to be restored to a safe
condition. To the extent that repairs, alterations or additions are intended to
be made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the
structure, such repairs, alterations, additions or change of occupancy shall
comply with the Ohio Building Code and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.07)
§ 150.008 CONFLICT.
   (A)   General. Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Ohio
Building Code specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict
between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall be applicable.
   (B)   Other laws. The provisions of the Ohio Building Code shall not be
deemed to nullify any provisions of state or federal law. The municipality may
make further and additional regulations, not in conflict with R.C. Chapters
3781 and 3791 or with the rules of the Board of Building Standards. However,
approval by the Board of Building Standards of any fixture, device, material,
system, assembly or product of a manufacturing process, or method or manner of
construction or installation shall constitute approval for their use anywhere
in the state.
   (C)   Other rules.
      (1)   As provided in R.C. § 3781.11(B), the rules of the Board of
Building Standards shall supersede and govern any order, standard or rule of
the Divisions of State Fire Marshal or Industrial Compliance in the Department
of Commerce, and the Department of Health and of counties and townships, in all
cases where such orders, standards or rules are in conflict with the rules of
the Board of Building Standards, except that rules adopted and orders issued by
the Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3743 prevail in the event of a
conflict.
      (2)   There may be other requirements owners may be required to meet as
set forth by other licensing agencies such as the State Fire Marshal, State
Department of Health, the State Department of Jobs and Family Services, State
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, State Department of
Developmental Disabilities, federal agencies or other licensing authorities.
Owners and designers should investigate these additional licensing agency
requirements to ensure they are incorporated into the building design before
submitting to the certified building department for plan approval.
      (3)   The rules of the Board of Building Standards adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 3781.10 shall govern any rule or standard adopted by the Board pursuant
to R.C. §§ 4104.02 and 4105.011.
(Prior Code, § 1301.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Ohio Building Code § 102
§ 150.009 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Building Official. The Building Official is responsible for the
enforcement of the rules of the Board and of R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791
relating to the construction, arrangement and the erection of buildings or
parts thereof. All building officials shall conduct themselves in a
professional, courteous, impartial, responsive and cooperative manner. The
Building Official shall render interpretations of this Code and to adopt
policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the
intent and purpose of this Code. Building Officials shall be responsible to
assure that a system is in place to track and audit all projects, to assure
that all Building Department personnel perform their duties in accordance with
this section and for the overall administration of a Building Department.
   (B)   Applications and plan approvals. The Building Official shall receive
applications, require or cause the submitted construction documents to be
examined, ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and
described is in accordance with the requirements of this Ohio Building Code,
and shall issue plan approvals for the construction, erection, alteration,
demolition and moving of buildings and structures. The Building Official shall
require a master plans examiner or elective plans examiners to examine the
construction documents to verify the construction indicated is in accordance
with the requirements of this Code and shall assure coordination of plan
review.
   (C)   Plan examination by the Building Official. When the Building
Department does not have in its full-time employ a certified master plans
examiner, the certified Building Official shall examine construction documents
to determine compliance with the rules of the Board if the registered design
professional elects to submit construction documents that contain a written
certification by the registered design professional indicating conformance with
the requirements of the rules of the Board and R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791.
   (D)   Orders. The Building Official shall issue all orders in accordance
with §
150.006 to ensure compliance with the Ohio Building Code.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   If the plans for the erection, construction, repair, alteration,
relocating or equipment of a building are subject to inspection by the Building
Official, under § 108 of the Ohio Building Code, the Building Official shall
cause to be made such inspections, investigations and determinations as are
necessary to determine whether or not the work which has been performed and the
installations which have been made are in conformity with the approved
construction documents. The Building Official shall identify any special
conditions that would affect the timing of inspections and schedule inspections
times mutually agreed upon by the Building Official and the owner.
      (2)   Special inspections are as required under § 1704 of the Ohio
Building Code.
   (F)   Department records. The Building Official shall keep official records
of applications received, certificate of plan approvals issued, notices and
orders issued, certificates of occupancy, certificates of completion and other
such records required by the rules of the Board of Building Standards. Such
information shall be retained in the official permanent record for each
project. One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the
Building Official for a period of not less than 180 days from date of
completion of the permitted work, or as required by document retention
regulations.
   (G)   Department reports. The Building Official shall be responsible for the
submission of reports and any requested special information to the Board of
Building Standards as required in O.A.C. § 4101:7-2-01(F). Failure to submit
these reports as required by rule or by special request or inquiry of the Board
of Building Standards may be grounds for Board action as described in O.A.C. §
4101:7-3-01(F)(7).
   (H)   Liability. Liability of certified Building Department personnel for
any tortious act will be determined by state courts to the applicable
provisions of R.C. Chapter 2744.
(Prior Code, § 1301.09)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see O.A.C. § 4101:7
§ 150.010 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OHIO BUILDING CODE. The Ohio Building Code (OBC) and related codes as
adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards, Department of Industrial
Relations, effective January 1, 2016, as amended to date, and as identified and
published in O.A.C. Division 4101:1 et seq.
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS AND RESIDENCES
§ 150.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum standards to maintain
the exteriors of all buildings in the village, and to provide that these
buildings are safe, sanitary, do not constitute a blighting influence on the
community; to fix responsibilities for owners and occupants of structures that
need maintenance; and to provide for the adoption of rules, and to fix
responsibilities for owners and occupants of structures that need maintenance;
and to provide for the adoption of rules, and to fix penalties for violations
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1311.01) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 150.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDINGS. Any industrial, commercial, retail, storage or residential
structure, including an accessory building either attached to or incidental to
a structure.
   BUSINESS. All uses or occupants other than owner occupied residential
including, but not limited to, retail establishments, restaurants, gasoline
stations and/or other buildings open to the public.
   CODE. The Exterior Maintenance Code set forth in this subchapter.
   OCCUPANT. The person who occupies a building, structure or any portion
thereof. The words tenant and OCCUPANT shall be considered synonymous.
   OPERATOR. A person who has charge, care or control of a business structure.
   OWNER. The owner of the premises or one of the owners of the premises if
owned by more than one person, including the holder of title thereto subject to
contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee or receiver in
possession, a lessee or joint lessee of the whole thereof, or an agent or any
person, firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in control of the premises.
   PERSON. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or association of persons of any kind.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Commission of the village.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector or the authorized agent of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1311.02) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 150.022 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No owner or operator shall occupy, rent or lease, or offer rental or
lease, any structure or any parts thereof which do not comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The owner or operator of every building or structure shall be
responsible for maintaining a clean, safe and sanitary condition, the shared or
common areas of the premises, including all yard areas, walks, driveways,
parking lots and including the public sidewalk area adjoining the building on
the public right-of-way. The owner or operator shall be responsible for snow
and ice removal, rubbish removal and other obvious activities relative to the
maintenance of a safe and sanitary structure.
   (C)   The occupant of any building or structure shall be responsible for
maintaining in a clean, safe and sanitary condition that part of the premises
which he or she occupies and controls.
(Prior Code, § 1311.03) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The exterior of all buildings shall be maintained in good repair.
   (B)   All foundations of every building shall be structurally sound.
   (C)   All roofs and chimneys of every building shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair.
   (D)   All exterior walls and features of every structure shall be maintained
so as to resist decay or deterioration from any cause. Any building whose
exterior surface is bare, deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or in poor
repair, must be repaired, replaced or razed as follows:
      (1)   Broken or dilapidated fences, walls or other structures; and
      (2)   Improperly installed or maintained public sidewalks, walks,
driveways and driveway aprons which are in defective condition, and/or are not
in conformance with this Code.
(Prior Code, § 1311.04) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 150.024 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; ORDER TO COMPLY.
   Whenever the Zoning Inspector determines that there has been a violation of
any provision of this Code, he or she shall give notice of such violation to
the person responsible therefore and order compliance with such provision, as
hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing or an appropriate form;
   (B)   Include a list of violations, refer to the section or sections
violated and order remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with
the provisions of this Code;
   (C)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (D)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the procedure for appeal;
and
   (E)   Be served upon the owner, occupant or agent in person; provided,
however, that such notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner, occupant or agent if a copy thereof is sent by certified mail to
his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 1311.05) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 150.025 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission is authorized to conduct hearings and shall adopt
procedures for the same.
(Prior Code, § 1311.06) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 150.026 RIGHT OF APPEAL; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provisions of this subchapter may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Planning
Commission; provided that such person shall file in the Office of the Zoning
Inspector a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth the
name, address and phone number of the petitioner and a brief statement of the
grounds for such hearing and appeal from any orders of the Zoning Inspector.
Petitions shall be filed within ten days after the day the notice and order is
served. Upon receipt of such petition, the Zoning Inspector shall set a time
and place for the hearing before the Planning Commission and shall give the
petitioner written notice thereof. The hearing shall be commenced within 30
days after a petition has been filed. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice and order
should be modified or withdrawn. The failure of the petitioner or his or her
representative to appear and state his or her cause at such hearing shall be
grounds for dismissal of such petition.
   (B)   Upon hearing, the Planning Commission may affirm, amend, modify or
withdraw such notice and order, and the petitioner and the Zoning Inspector
shall be notified in writing of such findings.
   (C)   The proceedings at such hearings, including the findings and decision
of the Planning Commission and reasons therefor, shall be summarized and
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the Office of
the Zoning Inspector. Such record shall also include a copy of every notice and
order issued in connection with the matter. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Planning Commission may seek relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1311.07) (Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991)
UNSAFE STRUCTURES
§ 150.040 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   With respect to buildings identified by the County Department of Building
Standards as being insecure, unsafe or structurally defective, the Mayor shall
cause notice to be given by certified mail to the holders of legal or equitable
liens of record upon the real property upon which such buildings are located
and upon the owners of record of such property pursuant to the provisions of
R.C. § 715.26.
(Prior Code, § 1321.01) (Ord. 04-08, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 150.041 HEARING.
   The Mayor shall also notify the owner and lien holder that they may request
a hearing before the Council of the village within 30 days of the receipt of
the notice for the purposes of entering into an agreement with the village to
repair or remove any insecure, unsafe or structurally defective buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1321.02) (Ord. 04-08, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 150.042 DETERMINATION OF OWNER.
   The Mayor shall request a title company to determine the names and addresses
of owners and lien holders of the property or properties identified by the
Department of Building Standards on which are located insecure, unsafe or
structurally defective buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1321.03) (Ord. 04-08, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 150.043 ACTION BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor is authorized to take whatever action is necessary to implement
provisions of R.C. § 715.26 with respect to insecure, unsafe or structurally
defective buildings located in the village and identified by the Department of
Building Standards.
(Prior Code, § 1321.04) (Ord. 04-08, passed 6-1-2004)
NUMBERING STRUCTURES
§ 150.055 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All properties located within the village shall post an address which shall
be legible from the road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 1331.01) (Ord. 27-89, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 150.056 ADDRESS ON MAILBOX.
   Addresses posted on a mailbox shall be acceptable only if the mailbox is
located on the property being identified.
(Prior Code, § 1331.02) (Ord. 27-89, passed 12-5-1989)
NOTICE OF FORECLOSURE
§ 150.070 PURPOSE.
   The Mayor and Council find and declare that improperly maintained and
secured foreclosed properties can become a hazard to the health, welfare and
safety of persons who may come on or near the property and can adversely affect
the aesthetic and economic qualities of the areas within the village. Further,
difficulties often arise in locating the person responsible for the condition
of foreclosed real property. The Mayor and Council find that there is a
substantial need directly related to the public health, welfare and safety to
comprehensively address these concerns. It is, therefore, the purpose and
intent of this subchapter to establish a registration program for properties
that are in the process of foreclosure or where ownership has been transferred
after foreclosure as a mechanism to protect areas within the village from
becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and adequate
security of abandoned properties.
(Prior Code, § 1351.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.071 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all buildings and structures located
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 1351.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.072 NOTICE OF FORECLOSURE FILING; FEE.
   (A)   Any person, corporation or entity that files a complaint in any court
of competent jurisdiction for foreclosure involving real property located
within the village on which there is a building or structure, shall notify the
village of the filing of the foreclosure complaint and shall file a complete
copy of the foreclosure complaint with the Village Clerk, for transmittal to
the Zoning Inspector, within ten days after the filing of the complaint. The
required notice to the village shall be on a form prescribed by the Zoning
Inspector.
   (B)   The fee for filing a notice of foreclosure shall be listed in the
village fee schedule established in §
37.01, and shall be paid at the time the notice is filed with the Village
Clerk, and on each anniversary date thereafter so long as the foreclosure case
remains pending on the court’s docket.
(Prior Code, § 1351.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.073 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   If the building or structure on the property that is the subject of a
foreclosure proceeding is vacant at the time the foreclosure complaint is filed
with a court of competent jurisdiction, then the person, corporation or entity
filing the foreclosure complaint shall provide the Zoning Inspector the name,
address and contact information for the person who is responsible for
maintaining the property in conformance with this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If the building or structure on the property that is the subject of a
foreclosure proceeding becomes vacant at any time after the foreclosure
complaint is filed with a court of competent jurisdiction, the person or entity
filing the foreclosure complaint shall provide the Zoning Inspector the name,
address and contact information for the person who is responsible for
maintaining the property in conformance with this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Vacant building shall be defined pursuant to §
150.087.
(Prior Code, § 1351.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
VACANT PROPERTY AND BUILDING REGISTRATION
§ 150.085 PURPOSE.
   The Mayor and Council find and declare that within the village limits, there
are vacant buildings or structures which are in an unsafe, dangerous or
unsecure condition which need to be made safe and secure. Such buildings or
structures pose a danger to the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of
the village by increasing neighborhood blight, creating fire and other hazards
to adjoining properties, attracting criminal activities and creating attractive
nuisance to children. It is, therefore, essential to public health, welfare and
safety that the village maintain an accurate registration of all vacant
buildings and structures, and the purpose of this subchapter is to establish a
program for identifying and registering vacant residential, commercial and
industrial buildings within the village; to determine the responsibilities of
owners of vacant buildings and structures; to speed the rehabilitation or
condemnation of vacant buildings; and to shift the cost of rehabilitating or
condemning vacant buildings from the public to the owners of the blighted
buildings to the extent permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 1361.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.086 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all buildings and structures located
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 1361.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.087 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A building or a structure.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is vacant.
Such conditions include, but are not limited to, significantly below standard
utility usage, overgrown and/or dead vegetation, accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, flyers and/or mail, accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris,
broken or boarded up windows, abandoned vehicles, auto parts or materials, the
absence of window coverings, such as curtains, blinds and/or shutters, the
absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with habitation or
occupation, statement(s) by governmental employee(s) that the property is
vacant.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building that is not being used for the occupancy authorized
by the owner.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building that is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building (excluding government-owned buildings) which is:
      (1)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
      (2)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
      (3)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building as determined by the Zoning
Inspector;
      (4)   Unoccupied and having utilities disconnected;
      (5)   Unoccupied and has housing or building code violations;
      (6)   Illegally occupied, which shall include loitering and vagrancy;
      (7)   Unoccupied for a period of time over 90 days and having an existing
code violation issued by the Zoning Inspector;
      (8)   Unoccupied with a mortgage status of abandonment (i.e., deceased or
foreclosed); or
      (9)   Unoccupied and abandoned by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 1361.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.088 VACANT PROPERTY/BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner shall register with the Village Clerk, not later than 90
days after any building located in an area zoned for, or abutting an area zoned
for, residential or commercial use in the village becomes a vacant building or
not later than 30 days of being notified by the Zoning Inspector of the
requirement to register based on evidence of vacancy, whichever event first
occurs.
   (B)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the Zoning
Inspector, and made available on the village website, and shall include the
following information supplied by the owner:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or owners;
      (2)   The name and address of any third-party with whom the owner has
entered into a contract or agreement for property management. By designating an
authorized agent under the provisions of this section, the owner is consenting
that the third-party is authorized to receive any and all notices relating to
the property and conformance of any and all ordinances;
      (3)   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      (4)   A telephone number where a responsible party can be reached at all
times during business and non-business hours; and
      (5)   A vacant building plan as described in division (C) below.
   (C)   The owner shall submit a vacant building plan, which must meet the
approval of the Zoning Inspector. The plan, at a minimum, must contain
information from one of the following three choices:
      (1)   If the building is to be demolished, a demolition plan indicating
the proposed time frame for demolition which includes starting within 30 days
of acceptance of the proposed demolition timeline and does not exceed 60 days
in accordance with the Ohio Building Code;
      (2)   If the building is to remain vacant, a plan for the ensuring the
building is secured in accordance with §§
150.001 through
150.010, along with the procedure that will be used to maintain the property,
and a statement of the reasons why the building will be left vacant (e.g.,
building is for sale and the like); or
      (3)   If the building is to be returned to appropriate occupancy or use,
a rehabilitation plan for the building and grounds. The rehabilitation plan
shall not exceed 12 months from the time designated representative obtains all
required permits, unless the Zoning Inspector grants an extension upon receipt
of a written statement from the owner detailing the reasons for the extension.
Any repairs, improvements or alterations to the property must comply with any
applicable zoning, housing, historic preservation or building codes, and the
property must be secured during the rehabilitation.
   (D)   The owner shall notify the Zoning Inspector of any changes in
information of his, her or their vacant building registration within 30 days of
the change. If the plan or timetable for the vacant building is revised in any
way, the revision(s) must be in writing and must meet the approval of the
Zoning Inspector.
   (E)   The owner and subsequent owners shall keep the building secured and
safe and the building and grounds properly maintained in accordance with all
applicable provisions of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   A new owner(s) shall register or re-register the vacant building with
the Village Clerk within 30 days of any transfer of an ownership interest in
the vacant building if the building continues to remain vacant after transfer.
The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable submitted by
the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted and meet the
approval of the Zoning Inspector.
   (G)   The failure of the owner of the vacant building to obtain a deed for
the property or to file the deed with the County Fiscal Office shall not excuse
the property owner from registering the property.
   (H)   Failure of the owner or any subsequent owners to maintain the building
and premises that result in remedial action taken by the village shall be
grounds for revocation of the approved plan and shall be subject to any
applicable penalties provided by the law.
   (I)   The Zoning Inspector shall include in the file any property specific
written statements from community organizations, other interested parties or
citizens regarding the history, problems, status or blighting influence of a
vacant building.
   (J)   The registration and all associated processes must be completed in its
entirety annually for as long the property remains vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1361.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.089 ESCROW AND BOND.
   (A)   Each demolition of a vacant building requires that the owner pay the
fee and hold in escrow with the village a deposit in accordance with the fee
schedule established in §
37.01. If the amount to be set up in escrow cannot be paid in full, the village
will place a lien on the property for the amount specified. The village will
use these funds to complete the plans submitted by the owner in the event that
the owner does not comply with the deadlines as previously submitted in the
owner’s vacant building plan. Remaining escrowed funds will be released upon
completion of the work or transfer of ownership; provided that all fees to date
have been paid in full, and upon approval of the Zoning Inspector. New owners
must sign a form accepting responsibility for completing the demolition.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector and/or the Planning Commission may require that a
performance bond be made payable to the village for the issuance of a zoning
permit in all districts, in an amount up to 125% of the demolition cost of the
use, sufficient to preserve the interests of the village with respect to such
use. The bond must be issued by a recognized and approved bonding company
licensed in the state and acceptable to the Zoning Inspector. No project shall
be released from such bond if there is a failure to comply with approved site
plans.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector and/or the Planning Commission may require that a
maintenance bond be made payable to the village for the issuance of a zoning
permit in all districts, in the amount and duration to be determined by the
Zoning Inspector. The bond must be issued by a recognized and approved bonding
company licensed in the state and acceptable to the Zoning Inspector. No
project shall be released from such bond before the Zoning Inspector certifies
compliance with the requirements and duration of such bond.
(Prior Code, § 1361.05) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.090 INSPECTIONS.
   The Zoning Inspector shall inspect any premises in the village for the
purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Upon the request of the Zoning Inspector, an owner may provide
access to all interior portions of an unoccupied building in order to permit a
complete inspection. Nothing contained herein, however, shall diminish the
owner’s right to insist upon the procurement of a search warrant from a court
of competent jurisdiction by the Zoning Inspector or his or her designee in
order to enable such inspection. The Zoning Inspector shall be required to
obtain a search warrant whenever an owner refuses to permit a warrantless
inspection of the premises. The following shall apply:
   (A)   Vacant properties will be externally inspected by the Zoning Inspector
a minimum of twice per year to ensure the compliance of property maintenance
codes;
   (B)   Vacant properties will be both internally and externally inspected at
the start of each registration period (new and renewal) and when the
registration is terminated by the property owner;
   (C)   Vacant properties will be both internally and externally inspected
upon acquisition of the property by a new owner and prior to the issuance of
any certificate of zoning compliance as outlined in the Zoning Code; and
   (D)   Any inspection that is to take place within 30 days of a previous
inspection may or may not be conducted at the discretion of the Zoning
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1361.06) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.091 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION FEES.
   The fees shall be reasonably related to the administrative costs for
registering and processing the vacant building owner registration form and for
the costs incurred by the village for monitoring the vacant building site,
demolition, hazard abatement or repairs to vacant buildings.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant residential building shall pay an annual fee
pursuant to the fee schedule established by §
37.01.
   (B)   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall pay an annual fee
pursuant to the fee schedule established by §
37.01.
   (C)   The first annual fee shall be paid at the time the building is
registered. Subsequent annual fees shall be paid on the anniversary date of the
first annual fee. If the fee is not paid, the owner shall be subject to
prosecution as prescribed in §
150.999.
   (D)   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits unless the property is granted an exemption. The fee shall be prorated
and a refund may be issued if the building is no longer deemed vacant under the
provisions of this subchapter within 180 days of its registry.
   (E)   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any transfer
of an ownership interest in the vacant building. A lien may be placed on the
property to collect delinquent fees.
   (F)   Late fees shall be paid in addition to the annual registration and
will be equal to the total of any unpaid annual fee pursuant to the fee
schedule established by §
37.01.
(Prior Code, § 1361.07) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A building under active construction/ renovation and having a valid
building permit(s) at the time of initial inspection shall be exempt from
registration until the expiration of the longest running, currently active
building permit.
   (B)   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by extreme
weather conditions shall be exempt from the registration requirement for a
period of 90 days after the date of the fire or extreme weather event if the
property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Zoning
Inspector. This request shall include the names and addresses of the owner or
owners, and a statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building.
   (C)   A building that is for sale and listed with a licensed state realtor
shall be exempt for a period of 12 months from the start of vacancy; provided
that the owner submits proof to the Zoning Inspector of such listing and for
sale status.
   (D)   A building that has been granted an exemption pursuant to the
following: any owner of a vacant building may request an exemption from the
provisions of this subchapter by filing a written application with the Zoning
Inspector who shall timely consider same. In determining whether a request for
exemption should be granted, the Zoning Inspector shall consider the following:
the applicant’s prior record as it pertains to Planning and Zoning Code,
Building Code and violations; the amount of vacant property the applicant
currently has within the village; and the length of time that the building for
which the exemption is sought has been vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1361.08) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.093 APPEALS.
   Any owner who is served a notice of vacant property registration may, within
ten calendar days of receipt of such notice, apply for an exemption or appeal
the findings of the Zoning Inspector to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 1361.09) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
BOARD OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 150.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record as shown of the tax records of the
County Auditor’s Office, and also includes any purchaser or purchasers who are
buying under a land contract which is recorded in the county records.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any garage, shed, barn, house, building, structure or
property, which by reason of the condition in which it is permitted to be or
remain, shall or may endanger the health, life, limb or property of any person,
or cause any hurt, harm, damage, injury or loss to any person in any one or
more of the following ways, means or particulars:
      (1)   By reasons of being dilapidated, decayed, unsafe or unsanitary is
detrimental to health, morals, safety, public welfare and the well-being of the
village, endangers life or property or is conducive to ill health, delinquency
and crime;
      (2)   By reason of being a fire hazard; or
      (3)   By reason of the conditions which require its continued vacancy the
public nuisance, and its surrounding grounds, are not reasonably or adequately
maintained thereby causing deterioration and creating a blighting influence or
condition on nearby properties and thereby depreciating the value, use and
enjoyment of such properties to such an extent that it is harmful to the public
health, welfare, morals, safety and the economic stability of the area,
community or neighborhood in which such a public nuisance is located.
(Prior Code, § 1371.01) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.106 BOARD OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   The Board of Nuisance Abatement shall be composed of the Mayor, Fire Chief,
Zoning Inspector and the President Pro Tem. The President Pro Tem shall serve
as chairperson of the Board. All such members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1371.02) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.107 PROCEDURE FOR FINDING OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor suspects the existence of a public nuisance as
defined by §
150.106(A), the Mayor shall promptly cause such suspected public nuisance to be
inspected by the Zoning Inspector. Following such inspection, should the Mayor
determine that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a public nuisance
exists, the Mayor shall notify the chairperson of the Board of Nuisance
Abatement, who shall cause a hearing to be held by the Board on the question of
the existence of a public nuisance.
   (B)   The owner of the property in question, or his or her duly authorized
representative or agent, shall be notified of the date, time and place of such
hearing in accordance with the provisions of §
150.108 and shall be given an opportunity of appearing in person or through a
duly authorized representative or agent, at such hearing and of presenting such
evidence as may be pertinent to the question of the possible existence of the
public nuisance.
   (C)   A copy of the reports of the Zoning Inspector will be made available
to the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   It shall be necessary to have a concurring vote of at least three
members of the Board for a finding that public nuisance as defined in §
150.105 does exist.
   (E)   The Board, following the hearing, shall cause a written order to be
served on the owner of the subject property, in accordance with the provisions
of §
150.108, stating the findings of the Board with respect to the existence of a
public nuisance. If the Board finds that a public nuisance does exist, the
order shall include: where abatement of the nuisance can be accomplished
through repair or rehabilitation; a list of repair or rehabilitation
specifications required to abate the public nuisance; and shall state that
unless the owner of subject property causes the abatement of the public
nuisance by repair, rehabilitation or demolition, the same will be abated by
the municipality at the expense of the owner. Such abatement by the owner shall
start within 15 days after receipt of the order and shall be completed within
45 days or, where abatement is to be accomplished through repair or
rehabilitation, such additional time as the Mayor may deem necessary to
complete the abatement of the public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1371.03) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.108 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice of hearing required under §
150.107(B) shall be served by mailing a copy to the owner, as defined in §
150.105, by United States certified mail with return receipt requested, by
personally serving such owner or by leaving a copy at the usual place of
residence of such owner. If service of the notice provided for in §
150.107(D) cannot be perfected by any of the hereinbefore described methods,
then the Board of Nuisance Abatement shall cause such a notice to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality once each week for
two consecutive weeks prior to the date of such hearing. Service of the order
provided for in §
150.107(D) shall be in the manner provided herein. If service of the order
provided for in §
150.107(D) is not perfected by certified mail, personal service or residence
service as hereinbefore described, then the Board shall cause such notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, once each
week for two consecutive weeks. However, such a published order shall not
include a list of the repair or rehabilitation specifications mentioned in §
150.107(D).
(Prior Code, § 1371.04) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.109 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be and act as the Appeal Board for
any appeals from the determination of the Board of Nuisance Abatement and,
using this subchapter as a basis, shall have the power to confirm, reverse or
modify any order of the Board of Nuisance Abatement appealed to it. The Board
of Zoning Appeals may, in a proper case for good cause shown, grant an
extension of time for repairs to be made not to exceed six months.
   (B)   The owner may, within ten days after service of the order of the
findings of the Board of Nuisance Abatement, as provided for in §
150.107(E), that the subject property does constitute a public nuisance, make a
demand in writing to the Board of Zoning Appeals for an appeal on the question
of whether in fact a public nuisance, as defined in §
150.105, does exist.
   (C)   The owner of the property in question or his or her duly authorized
representative or agent, shall be notified of the date, time and place of the
appeal hearing in accordance with the provisions of §
150.107, and shall be given an opportunity of appearing in person, or through a
duly authorized representative or agent, at such hearing and of presenting such
evidence as may be pertinent to the question of the existence of the public
nuisance.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, after reviewing all of the inspection
reports, and any pertinent whether a public nuisance, as defined in §
150.105, does exist before enforcement of the abatement provisions of this
subchapter are carried out. A copy of the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be promptly served upon the owner in the manner provided for in §
150.107.
(Prior Code, § 1371.05) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.110 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE OR DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Provided 30 days’ notice is given in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(B),
should any nuisance not be abated by the owner at the expiration of the time
stated in the orders of the Board of Nuisance Abatement, or such additional
time as the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant, the Board of Nuisance Abatement
shall be authorized, at any time thereafter, to cause entry upon such premises
and the owner shall permit such entry to abate the nuisance by demolition and
removal of the structure.
   (B)   In abating such nuisance, the Board of Nuisance Abatement shall obtain
the abatement thereof by private contract and the costs of such private
contract shall be paid for from village funds specifically authorized by
Council in order to abate such public nuisance. The cost of such abatement
action shall be recovered from the owner in the following manner.
      (1)   The owner shall be billed for the cost of the abatement by mailing
such bill to the owner, by United States certified mail with return receipt
requested; and by personally serving the owner with a copy of such bill or by
leaving a copy of such bill at the usual place of residence of the owner. If
service of such bill is not perfected by any of the hereinbefore described
methods, then the billing notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality once a week for two consecutive weeks.
      (2)   If the owner fails to pay for the cost of such abatement within 60
days after receipt of the bill, after its delivery to his or her usual place of
residence or after the publication of the second notice in the aforesaid
newspaper, the municipality shall cause the cost of the abatement to be levied
as an assessment against the property and recovered in accordance with
authority granted by R.C. § 715.261.
(Prior Code, § 1371.06) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.111 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This subchapter shall not be deemed to be a limitation or restriction on the
authority of any department, division, official or employee of the village, but
shall be deemed to be an enlargement of any authority existing by virtue of the
status of the state or any ordinance heretofore enacted by Council.
(Prior Code, § 1371.07) (Ord. O-18-21, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.001 through
150.009 or any code adopted herein or fails to comply with any lawful order
issued pursuant thereto is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or
both. Each day during which non-compliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. The municipality may institute injunction
proceedings in Common Pleas Court to abate the nuisance of failure to cease
work after receipt of a stop work order.
(Prior Code, § 1301.99)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.026 shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition, the Zoning Inspector is authorized to direct the
Village Administrator to deny any new utility turn-on, for any vacant building
which does not comply with §§
150.020 through
150.026.
(Prior Code, § 1311.99)
   (D)   Violation of §§
150.055 or
150.056 shall be a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1331.99)
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation who
violates any provision of §§
150.070 through
150.073 shall be fined an administrative/civil fine as listed in the village
fee schedule pursuant §
37.01. The first offense shall be deemed a level one violation, a second
offense shall be deemed a level two violation and each offense thereafter shall
be deemed a level three violation. Each day such occurs or continues shall be
deemed a separate violation.
      (2)   If payment is not received by the village within 30 days from the
date of the mailing such notice, Council shall then make a written return to
the County Fiscal Officer of its action, showing the total charges together
with all applicable attorney and/or collection agency fees up to one-third of
the total amount owed. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate,
shall be a lien upon the lot from the date of entry and shall be collected as
other taxes are collected and returned to the village by the County Fiscal
Officer.
      (3)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee has the discretion to waive up to
50% of the total assessed fine or lien and execute any related paperwork in
changing a lien release. Village Council must approve any fine waiver or lien
release beyond 50% of the total fine or lien levied.
(Prior Code, § 1351.99)
   (F)   (1)   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation who
violates any provision of §§
150.085 through
150.093 shall be fined an administrative/civil fine as listed in the village
fee schedule pursuant §
37.01. The first offense shall be deemed a level one violation, a second
offense shall be deemed a level two violation and each offense thereafter shall
be deemed a level three violation. Each day such occurs or continues shall be
deemed a separate violation.
      (2)   If payment is not received by the village within 30 days from the
date of the mailing such notice, Council shall then make a written return to
the County Fiscal Officer of its action, showing the total charges together
with all applicable attorney and/or collection agency fees up to one-third of
the total amount owed. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate,
shall be a lien upon the lot from the date of entry and shall be collected as
other taxes are collected and returned to the village by the County Fiscal
Officer.
      (3)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee has the discretion to waive up to
50% of the total assessed fine or lien and execute any related paperwork in
changing a lien release. Village Council must approve any fine waiver or lien
release beyond 50% of the total fine or lien levied.
(Prior Code, § 1361.99)
(Ord. 27-89, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 18-91, passed 3-20-1991; Ord. O-18-21,
passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   General provisions
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Administration
   
151.04   Use and development standards for flood hazard reduction
   
151.05   Appeals and variances
   
151.06   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Basis of zoning districts, see R.C. § 713.10
   Conservancy districts, purpose, see R.C. § 6101.04
   Construction permits and prohibitions for dams, dikes or levees, see R.C. §
1521.06
   County Commission flood control aid to governmental units, see R.C. § 307.77
   Flood control bonds; public capital improvements, see Ohio Constitution,
Article VIII, § 2i
   Levees, see R.C. § 717.01
   Marking flood areas, see R.C. § 1521.13
   Ohio Department of Natural Resources Division of Water Resources, see R.C.
Chapter 1521
   Reduction of assessed valuation for establishing reservoirs, see R.C. §
1521.09
§ 151.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution
grants municipalities the legal authority to adopt land use and control
measures for promoting the health, safety and general welfare of its citizens.
Therefore, the Village Council does ordain the following.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The village has special flood hazard areas that are
subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute
to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of such damages and to
achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
      (7)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions;
      (8)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within
and near flood prone areas;
      (9)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
      (10)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial
values of the floodplain;
      (11)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or
environmentally incompatible; and
      (12)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood loss. In order to accomplish its purposes,
these regulations include methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (E)   Lands to which these regulations apply. These regulations shall apply
to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the village as
identified in this division (E), including any additional areas of special
flood hazard annexed by the village.
   (F)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. For the
purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are adopted:
      (1)   (a)   Flood insurance study for the village dated January 1980;
         (b)   Flood insurance rate maps for the village dated July, 1980;
         (c)   Flood boundary and floodway maps for the village dated July 2,
1980; and
         (d)   Flood insurance rate map. The county and incorporated areas in
flood insurance study in the county and incorporated areas both effective July
20, 2009.
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard
include;
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
village as required by §
151.04(C); and
      (4)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the Clinton Village Hall, 7871 Main Street,
Clinton, Ohio, 44216.
   (G)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. These regulations are not
intended to repeal any existing ordinances including subdivision regulations,
zoning or building codes. In the event of a conflict between these regulations
and any other ordinance, the more restrictive shall be followed. These
regulations shall not impair any deed restriction covenant or easement but the
land subject to such interests shall also be governed by the regulations.
   (H)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of these
regulations, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
   (I)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by these regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can
and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made
or natural causes. These regulations do not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damage. These regulations shall not create liability on the
part of the village, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, for any flood damage that results from reliance on these
regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (J)   Severability. Should any section or provision of this chapter be
declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1341.01) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 09-7, passed 7-7-
2009)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977 and being codified as 3 C.F.R., 1977 Comp, p. 117, this order requires
that no federally assisted activities be conducted in or have the potential to
affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless there is no practicable
alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM) The initial map, produced by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 and ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B and ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C and ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps) and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. In areas where no base flood elevations
exist from any authoritative source, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION can be
historical flood elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the State Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the village whose historic preservation program has been certified by the
State Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an enclosure below the
LOWEST FLOOR which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area; provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle. For the purposes of
these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3781.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the O.A.C. § 4781-12-01(K), any
tract of land upon which three or more manufactured homes used for habitation
are parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
roadway, building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the facilities of the PARK. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program enabling
property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection
against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an
insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the flood insurance rate map, July 2,
1980, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or any other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies. An AGENCY is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any governmental
entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any board, department,
division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution, state college or
university, community college district, technical college district or state
community college. AGENCY does not include the general assembly, the
controlling board, the adjutant general’s department or any court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate
maps, flood insurance studies, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood
hazard boundary maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30 and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREAS may also refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from
other federal, state or local sources of data including, but not limited to,
historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous flood
inundation areas and flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued; provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered new
construction;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the VARIANCE conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1341.03) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Mayor is hereby
appointed to administer and implement these regulations and is referred to
herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (3)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of non-compliance;
      (4)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
      (5)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection
necessary for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance
rate maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and
denial of permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of
whether development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose
of issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances
and records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
      (6)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
      (7)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
      (8)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
      (9)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to
begin construction or other development activity including, but not limited to,
filling; grading; construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any
structure; or alteration of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or
in contact with any identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.01(F), until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that
the proposed development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations. No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator
until the requirements of these regulations have been met.
   (D)   Application required. An application for a floodplain development
permit shall be required for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where
it is unclear whether a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the
Floodplain Administrator may require an application for a floodplain
development permit to determine the development’s location. Such applications
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations;
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
151.04(E);
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.04(D)(5) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.04(I)(3);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.04(I)(2);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.04(I)(1); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large
scale developments as required by §
151.04(C).
      (6)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule
of fees adopted by the village.
   (E)   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application.
      (1)   Review.
         (a)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in division (D) above has been
received by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1 et
seq. and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1343.
      (2)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete
application, the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
   (F)   Inspections. The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic
inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of construction in order
to monitor compliance with permit conditions.
   (G)   Post-construction certifications required. The following as-built
certifications are required after a floodplain development permit has been
issued:
      (1)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or non-
residential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative;
and
      (2)   For all development activities subject to the standards of division
(J)(1) below.
   (H)   Revoking a floodplain development permit. A floodplain development
permit shall be revocable if, among other things, the actual development
activity does not conform to the terms of the application and permit granted
thereon. In the event of the revocation of a permit, an appeal may be taken to
the Appeals Board in accordance with §
151.05.
   (I)   Exemption from filing a development permit.
      (1)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
         (a)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing,
or for small non-structural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
         (b)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured
home park that are under the authority of the State Department of Health and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 4781;
         (c)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting
Board under R.C. Chapter 4906;
         (d)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by R.C. Chapter
3734; and
         (e)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which
are subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 Floodplain Management, being 3
C.F.R., 1997 Comp., p. 117.
      (2)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
   (J)   Map maintenance activities. To meet National Flood Insurance Program
minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to
ensure that the village’s flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
151.01(F) accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            4.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.04(C).
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this division (J)(1), prepared in a format
required for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision,
and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions
shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter
of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroach- ments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations
but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (J)(1)(a)
above.
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor, and may be
submitted at any time.
      (3)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurr- ence, the Floodplain
Administrator shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the
village have been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority
over an area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations for a particular area. In order that the village’s flood
insurance rate map accurately represent the village boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction,
clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for which the village
has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
   (K)   Data use and flood map interpretation. The following guidelines shall
apply to the use and interpretation of maps and other data showing areas of
special flood hazard.
      (1)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas,
or in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state or other source.
      (2)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA
flood maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and
floodway boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width
and/or lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased
base flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood
maps and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the
FEMA, the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all
previously existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of
administering these regulations; and
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by
FEMA, the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no
base flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special
flood hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in §
151.05.
      (5)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and
field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection
elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established
high water marks and the like) shall prevail.
   (L)   Substantial damage determinations.
      (1)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire and the like. After such a damage event,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special
flood hazard areas;
         (b)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
         (c)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially
damaged structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior
to repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction.
      (2)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Prior Code, § 1341.03) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
§ 151.04 USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
151.01(F) or
151.03(K)(1).
   (A)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section
or any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed;
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
      (2)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited:
         (a)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701; and
         (b)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood
hazard areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
   (B)   Water and wastewater systems. The following standards apply to all
water supply, sanitary sewerage and waste disposal systems not otherwise
regulated by the state statutes:
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   Subdivisions and large developments.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation
data are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
      (5)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in §
151.03(J)(1)(a)4. when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (C)(4) above.
   (D)   Residential structures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Where a
structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above
the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage are satisfied.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
      (5)   New construction and substantial improvements, including
manufactured homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the
flood protection elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood
waters may have an enclosure below the lowest floor; provided the enclosure
meets the following standards:
         (a)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access or
storage;
         (b)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters; or
         (c)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings or
devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
      (6)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (7)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall
be exempt from the development standards of this division (D).
   (E)   Non-residential structures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall meet the requirements of
divisions (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(5), (D)(6) and (D)(7) above.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
         (a)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (E)(2)(a) and (E)(2)(b) above.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures containing no more than 600
square feet. Such structures must meet the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
      (6)   They shall meet the opening requirements of division (D)(5(c)
above.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of
the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas
for more than 180 days;
      (2)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   They must meet all standards of division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (I)   Assurance of flood-carrying capacity. Pursuant to the purpose and
methods of reducing flood damage stated in these regulations, the following
additional standards are adopted to assure that the reduction of the flood-
carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
      (1)   Development in floodways.
         (a)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base
flood elevation may be permitted; provided all of the following are completed
by the applicant:
            1.   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.03(J)(1);
            2.   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
            3.   Certification that no structures are located in areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
            4.   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
            5.   Concurrence of the Mayor and the Chief Executive Officer of
any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
      (2)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
         (a)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
         (b)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted; provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
            1.   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an
increase of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why
these alternatives are not feasible; and
            2.   Divisions(I)(1)(b)1. and (I)(1)(b)3. through (I)(1)(b)5. of
this section.
      (3)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations,
a watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the bankfull stage.
The field determination of bankfull stage shall be based on methods presented
in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-245,
“Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique” or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply.
         (a)   The bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
         (b)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the
State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (c)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood-carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
         (d)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical
data in §
151.03(J)(1)(a)3. when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Prior Code, § 1341.04) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
§ 151.05 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeals Board established.
      (1)   Council shall appoint an Appeals Board consisting of five village
residents. The members shall serve six-year terms after which time they shall
be reappointed or replaced by Council. Each member shall serve until his or her
successor is appointed.
      (2)   A chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board.
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting chairperson. All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except that the Board
may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings in
accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in
Clinton Village Hall, 7871 Main Street, Clinton, Ohio, 44216.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The following powers and duties apply:
      (1)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations; and
      (2)   Authorize variances in accordance with division (D) below.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official
action of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the Appeals Board; provided that such person shall
file, within ten days of the date of such notice and order, or other official
action, a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation
of any item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision.
Such appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
   (D)   Variances. Any person believing that the use and development standards
of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an
application for a variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, such variances from the standards of these
regulations, not inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions of the lot or parcel,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in
unnecessary hardship.
      (1)   Application for a variance.
         (a)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance, shall transmit it
to the Appeals Board.
         (b)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
         (c)   Village variance fee of $200.
      (2)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and
hold a public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given by placing notice in the five locations listed in §
30.05 at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
      (3)   Public hearing.
         (a)   At such hearing the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            6.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the
property. Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these
regulations; additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense,
nuisances, fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
local laws;
            4.   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
            5.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (c)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of
these regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these
regulations.
      (4)   Other conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (D)(3)(a)1. to (D)(3)
(a)11. above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (E)   Procedure at hearings.
      (1)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
      (2)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
      (3)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony
in support of the appeal or variance.
      (4)   Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
      (5)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
      (6)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become
part of the record for appeal.
      (7)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
      (8)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its
decision. The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and
thereafter issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a
reasonable time after the hearing.
   (F)   Appeal to the court. Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal such decision to the County Court of Common Pleas, as provided
in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Prior Code, § 1341.05) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
§ 151.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Compliance required.
      (1)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered
without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these
regulations, unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit
as stated in §
151.03(I).
      (2)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a
violation of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with
division (C) below.
      (3)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with division (C) below.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines
that there has been a violation of any provision of these regulations, he or
she shall give notice of such violation to the person responsible therefore and
order compliance with these regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice
and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person’s last known mailing address, residence or place of business, and/or
a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Prior Code, § 1341.06) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of this chapter in accordance with the
penalties stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 1341.06) (Ord. 05-15, passed 3-1-2005)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Title
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
   
152.005   Interpretation and conflicts
   
152.006   Relationship with third-party private agreements
   
152.007   Compliance required
   
152.008   Severability
   
152.009   Transitional rules
   
152.010   Restoration of unsafe buildings
   
152.011   Repeal
   
152.012   Use of graphics, tables, illustrations, figures and cross-references
   
152.013   Burden of proof
   
152.014   Comprehensive Land Use Plan adopted
   
152.015   Definitions
Decision Making Roles and Authority
   
152.030   Purpose
   
152.031   Illustration of review and decision making bodies
   
152.032   Village Council
   
152.033   Planning Commission
   
152.034   Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA)
   
152.035   Zoning Inspector
Review Procedures
   
152.050   Purpose
   
152.051   Common review requirements
   
152.052   Zoning certificate
   
152.053   Sign permit
   
152.054   Zoning text or map amendment
   
152.055   Conditional use
   
152.056   Variance
   
152.057   Appeals
   
152.058   Applications and permits for small cell facilities and wireless
support structures within the right-of-way
   
152.059   Professional fees and costs; account established; deposit by
applicant required
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
152.070   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.071   Official zoning map
   
152.072   Zoning district boundary interpretation
   
152.073   Vacation of public ways
Zoning Districts and Principal Use Regulations
   
152.085   Purpose statements for zoning districts
   
152.086   Principally permitted uses and activities
   
152.087   Use specific standards
   
152.088   District development standards
   
152.089   Mixed use district development standards
Overlay Districts
   
152.100   Club Conservation Overlay
   
152.101   Open Space Conservation Overlay
Oil and Gas Wells
   
152.115   Purpose, intent and authority
   
152.116   State standards
   
152.117   Oil/gas well drilling prohibitions
   
152.118   Permit requirements
   
152.119   Application for a permit
   
152.120   Public hearing requirements
   
152.121   Proof of performance bond
   
152.122   Plot plan and vicinity map
   
152.123   Drilling unit size
   
152.124   Minimum depth of well
   
152.125   Spacing of oil/gas wells
   
152.126   Placement of oil/gas wells
   
152.127   Drilling near structures; exceptions
   
152.128   Consent from property owners within 1,000 feet
   
152.129   Waivers from owners and occupants within 600 feet
   
152.130   Construction near producing oil/gas wells and storage tanks
   
152.131   Easements or options for pipelines and storage tanks
   
152.132   State permit required
   
152.133   Permit issuance; liability insurance
   
152.134   Inspection; permit revocation
   
152.135   Information to be furnished to the village
   
152.136   Maintenance of well site, ingress and egress; landscaping
   
152.137   Rotary equipment
   
152.138   Cable tools
   
152.139   Training of crews; condition of equipment
   
152.140   Sealing to protect fresh water wells
   
152.141   Fence requirements; electric powered well pump required
   
152.142   Prohibited drainage in storm or sanitary sewers and lakes, ponds,
canal and streams
   
152.143   Storage tanks, location and diking
   
152.144   Mud on site or streets
   
152.145   Restoration of public property; site clean up
   
152.146   Abandoned wells
   
152.147   Noise level
   
152.148   Other conditions
   
152.149   Brine disposal prohibited
   
152.150   Granting of variances
Wireless Communication
   
152.175   Placement of wireless communication towers and antennae
Riparian Setback Development Standards
   
152.190   Purpose
   
152.191   Compliance and violations
   
152.192   Establishment of a riparian setback
   
152.193   Uses permitted in the riparian setback
   
152.194   Uses prohibited in the riparian setback
   
152.195   Non-conforming structures or uses in the riparian setback
   
152.196   Boundary interpretation and appeals procedure
   
152.197   Variances within riparian setback
   
152.198   Inspection of riparian setback
Accessory and Temporary Use Regulations
   
152.210   Accessory use regulations
   
152.211   Temporary uses and structures
General Development Standards
   
152.225   Fencing, walls, hedges and similar structures
   
152.226   Steep slope regulations
   
152.227   Exterior lighting
   
152.228   Mailboxes and driveway entry structures
Landscaping Standards
   
152.240   Purpose
   
152.241   Applicability
   
152.242   General landscaping standards
   
152.243   Minimum landscaping standards
   
152.244   Streetscape buffer
   
152.245   Buffering between land uses
   
152.246   Landscaping for vehicular use areas
   
152.247   Screening of service structures
   
152.248   Maintenance and installation
Open Space Standards
   
152.260   Purpose
   
152.261   Applicability and determination
   
152.262   Use of open space
   
152.263   Design standards for open space
   
152.264   Protection and maintenance
Parking, Loading and Circulation Standards
   
152.275   Purpose
   
152.276   Applicability
   
152.277   Bicycle parking and storage
   
152.278   Off-street parking requirements
   
152.279   Off-street loading requirements
   
152.280   Vehicle stacking requirements
   
152.281   General design standards for all vehicular use areas
   
152.282   Sidewalk connections to a right-of-way
Signage Standards
   
152.295   Purpose
   
152.296   Applicability
   
152.297   Compliance required
   
152.298   Computations
   
152.299   General sign standards
   
152.300   Prohibited signs
   
152.301   Signs or changes not requiring a sign permit
   
152.302   Permanent signs permitted in residential districts
   
152.303   Permanent signs permitted in business districts
   
152.304   Temporary signs
   
152.305   Maintenance
   
152.306   Non-conforming signs
Non-Conformities
   
152.320   Purpose
   
152.321   General provisions
   
152.322   Non-conformities and changes in use or variances
   
152.323   Non-conforming uses
   
152.324   Non-conforming structures
   
152.325   Non-conforming lots of record in residential districts
   
152.326   Repair and maintenance
   
152.327   Burden of proof
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.340   Enforcing officer
   
152.341   Violations
   
152.342   Inspection
   
152.343   Remedies
   
152.344   Affected parties
   
152.345   Other actions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Zoning Code, enacted by the village, pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 713, is to promote public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
prosperity and the general welfare of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1101.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
Village of Clinton, Summit County, Ohio,” and may be referred to herein as
“this chapter” or “this Zoning Code.”
(Prior Code, § 1101.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   General authority. This chapter establishes the village’s zoning
regulatory authority as authorized by the state statutes.
   (B)   References to the state statutes or the Ohio Administrative Code.
Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of the
state statutes or the Ohio Administrative Code (O.A.C.), and that section is
later amended or superseded, this chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to
the amended section or the section that most nearly corresponds to the
superseded section.
(Prior Code, § 1101.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.004 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land, land development,
use of all structures, architectural design, landscaping, signage and uses of
land within the incorporated areas of the village as allowed by the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1101.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.005 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICTS.
   (A)   For purposes of interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Zoning Code shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare
as allowable by law.
   (B)   When the provisions of this Zoning Code are inconsistent with one
another or with the provisions found in another adopted ordinance, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
   (C)   Where this Zoning Code imposes a greater restriction than imposed or
required by other provisions of law or by other rules, regulations or
ordinances, the provisions of this Zoning Code shall control provided it does
not conflict with the state statutes and/or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.006 RELATIONSHIP WITH THIRD PARTY PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   This Zoning Code is not intended to interfere with or abrogate any
third-party private agreements including, but not limited to, easements,
covenants or other legal agreements between third parties. However, wherever
this Zoning Code proposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings,
structure or land, upon the location or height of buildings or structures, or
upon requirements for open areas than those imposed or required by such third-
party private agreements, the provision of this Zoning Code shall govern.
   (B)   In no case shall the village be obligated to enforce the provisions of
any easements, covenants or agreements between private parties unless the
village is involved as a party to the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1101.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.007 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter specified, no building, structure or sign shall
be located, constructed, erected, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained
or used, and no land shall be used in violation of this chapter or in a manner
that does not comply with all of the regulations established by this chapter
for the applicable zoning district and development.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to permit the use of any
structure, building, land or part thereof, hereafter erected, created, changed,
converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate is issued
by the Zoning Inspector in accordance with this chapter. Such certificate shall
state that such building, premises or part thereof, and the proposed use
thereof, is in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Existing uses, lots, buildings, structures and signs that do not
comply with this chapter will be subject to the non-conformity provisions of §§
152.320 through 150.328.
(Prior Code, § 1101.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.008 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any provision of
this Zoning Code, then such judgment shall not affect the validity and
continued enforcement of any other provision of this Zoning Code.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the application of
any provision of this Zoning Code to a particular property, structure or
situation, then such judgment shall not affect the application of that
provision to any other building, structure, sign or situation not specifically
included in that judgment.
   (C)   If any court of competent jurisdiction judges invalid any condition
attached to the approval of a development review application, then such
judgment shall not affect any other conditions or requirements attached to the
same approval that are not specifically included in that judgment.
(Prior Code, § 1101.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.009 TRANSITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   Effective date.
      (1)   This amendment is effective on January 1, 2019.
      (2)   Any amendments to this Zoning Code shall be in full force and
effect as provided in the state statutes.
   (B)   Violations continue. Any violation of this Zoning Code that applied to
a use, structure, property, development, construction or other activity, prior
to the adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code, shall continue to be a
violation under this Zoning Code and is subject to penalties and enforcement
under §§
152.340 through
152.345, unless the use, structure, property, development, construction, sign
or other activity complies with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Non-conformities continue.
      (1)   Any legal non-conformity under previous versions of this chapter
that applied prior to the adoption of this Zoning Code shall continue to be a
legal non-conformity under this amendment, as long as the situation that
resulted in the non-conforming status under the previous version of the
ordinance continues to exist.
      (2)   If a legal non-conformity under any previous versions of this
chapter that applied prior to the adoption of this chapter becomes conforming
because of the adoption of this chapter, then the situation will be considered
conforming and shall no longer be subject to the regulations pertaining to non-
conformities.
   (D)   Approved projects.
      (1)   Any building, structure or development for which a zoning
certificate was issued prior to the effective date of this Zoning Code may, at
the applicant’s option, be completed in conformance with the issued certificate
and any other applicable permits and conditions, even if such building,
structure or development does not fully comply with provisions of this Zoning
Code. Such building, structure or development shall be considered a legal non-
conforming use, if applicable, upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
from the Zoning Inspector.
      (2)   If the building, structure or development is not completed within
the time allowed under the original building permit or any extension granted
thereof, then the building, structure or development may be constructed,
completed or occupied only in compliance with this Zoning Code.
      (3)   Any application for a project where the zoning certificate has
expired shall meet the standards in effect at the time the application is
resubmitted.
   (E)   Vested rights. The transitional rule provisions of divisions (A)
through (D) above are subject to the state’s vested rights laws.
(Prior Code, § 1101.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.010 RESTORATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Except as provided in §§
152.320 through 152.328, nothing contained in this chapter shall hinder the
construction of a building or prohibit its use where construction has started
before the effective date of this chapter; provided that foundations have been
put in place before said effective date of this chapter and provided further
that such building shall be completed within two years from the effective date
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1101.10) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.011 REPEAL.
   This Zoning Code may be repealed in accordance with the provision
established in the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1101.11) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.012 USE OF GRAPHICS, TABLES, ILLUSTRATIONS, FIGURES AND CROSS-REFERENCES.
   (A)   Graphics, illustrations and figures are provided for illustrative
purposes only and shall not be construed as regulations. Where a conflict may
occur between the text and any graphic, illustration or figure, the text shall
control.
   (B)   In some instances, cross-references between chapters, sections and
divisions are provided that include the chapter, section or division number
along with the name of the referenced chapter, section or division. Where a
conflict may occur between the given cross-reference number and name, the name
shall control.
   (C)   A table shall be considered text for the purposes of this chapter
unless specifically identified as a figure.
(Prior Code, § 1101.12) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.013 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   The burden of demonstrating that an application, development or use of
land or structures subject to this chapter complies with applicable review and
approval standards is on the applicant.
   (B)   Such burden of proof shall also apply to demonstrating that a non-
conformity was established legally under a previous amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   The burden is not on the village or other parties to demonstrate that
the standards have been met by the applicant or person responsible for the
application, development, use of land or structure, or non-conformity with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1101.13) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.014 COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Land Use Plan and Zoning Code map included therein,
drafted by OHM Advisors and adopted March 19, 2020, is incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set out at length. A copy is on file and available for
inspection in the offices of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1101.14) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-19-34, passed
3-19-2020)
§ 152.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to define words, terms and
phrases, or identify references, contained in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
   (B)   General rules for interpretation. The following rules shall apply for
construing or interpreting the terms and provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the general
purposes set forth in §
152.001, and the specific purpose statements set forth throughout this chapter.
When a specific section of this chapter gives a different meaning than the
general definition provided in this chapter, the specific section’s meaning and
application of the term shall control.
      (2)   Headings, illustrations and text. In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the text of this chapter and any heading, caption,
figure, illustration, table or map, the text shall control. Graphics and other
illustrations are provided for informational purposes only and should not be
relied upon as a complete and accurate description of all applicable
regulations or requirements.
      (3)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists
of items or examples that use terms like for example, including, and such as,
or similar language are intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive
lists of all possibilities.
      (4)   References to other regulations or publications. Whenever reference
is made to a resolution, statute, regulation or document, it shall be construed
as a reference to the most recent edition of such resolution, statute,
regulation or document, unless otherwise specifically stated.
      (5)   Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this chapter to be
carried out by a specific official of the village may be carried out by a
designee of such official.
      (6)   Technical and non-technical terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      (7)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of the village unless otherwise
indicated.
      (8)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words “shall,” “must” and
“will” are mandatory in nature, establishing an obligation or duty to comply
with the particular provision. The words “may” and “should” are permissive in
nature.
      (9)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
         (a)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions
or events apply; and
         (b)   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events apply.
      (10)   Tenses and plurals. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the masculine
gender include the feminine gender, and vice versa.
      (11)   Terms not defined. If a term used in this chapter is not defined
in this chapter, the Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to provide a
definition based upon the definitions used in accepted sources, including but
not limited to, “A Planners Dictionary, A Glossary of Zoning, Development, and
Planning Terms, and A Survey of Zoning Definitions,” published by the American
Planning Association.
(Prior Code, § 1105.02)
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water
from a base flood, which is the flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. For the purposes of this chapter, the
current 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN shall be defined by FEMA and approved by the County
Department of Building Standards.
      ABANDONED (WIRELESS COMMUN- ICATION). Small cell facilities or wireless
support structures that are unused for a period of 365 days without the
operator otherwise notifying the village and receiving the village’s approval.
      ABOVE GROUND LIQUID HYDRO- CARBON STORAGE TANK. Any container used for
the storage of liquid hydrocarbons including, but not limited to, oil,
gasoline, kerosene and diesel fuel which is located in whole or in part above
the surface of the ground surrounding the tank.
      ABUTTING or ADJACENT. The land, lot or property adjoining the property in
question along a lot line or separated only by an alley, easement or street.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE or USE. See definitions under BUILDING.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS. Detached living quarters located on a lot with
an existing principal dwelling where the ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT is designed
for the use of persons employed on the premises or for the temporary use of
guests of the occupants of the principal dwelling. Such guesthouse or ACCESSORY
DWELLINGS are not rented, leased or otherwise transferred to an individual or
organization as a separate dwelling.
      ACCESSORY RECREATIONAL STRUCTURES. Structures and surfaces with permanent
improvements for outdoor use, such as tennis courts, paddle tennis,
shuffleboard, basketball courts and other similar facilities for use in
conjunction with a residential dwelling unit.
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or token-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment as defined in the state statutes. An establishment may have other
principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale, rental
or viewing of materials exhibiting or describing specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas and still be categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE,
ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. The existence of other principal
business purposes does not exempt an establishment from being categorized as an
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its
principal business purposes is offering for sale or rental for some form of
consideration, such materials that exhibit or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that,
for any form of consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock-in-trade; derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues from; devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to; or maintains a substantial section of its sales or
display space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT FAMILY HOMES. A residence or facility, as defined and regulated in
the state statutes, which provides accommodations for three to five unrelated
adults and provides supervision and personal care services to at least three of
the unrelated adults. See also definition of RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES, SMALL.
      ADULT GROUP HOMES. A residence or facility, as defined and regulated in
the state statutes, which provides accommodations for six to 16 unrelated
adults and provides supervision and personal care services to at least three of
the unrelated adults. See also definition of RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES, LARGE.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      AFFILIATE (WIRELESS COMMUN- ICATION). When used in relation to any
person, another person who owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is
under common ownership or control with, such person.
      AGENT (WIRELESS COMMUN- ICATION). A person that provides the village
written authorization to work on behalf of a public utility.
      AGRICULTURAL USES and AGRICULTURE. As defined in the state statues.
      ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, type of
occupancy, increase in floor space, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as altered or reconstructed.
      ANTENNA. Any transmitting or receiving device used in communications that
radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies, wireless communications signals or other communication
signals.
      APPEAL. An appeal of an administrative decision made by the Zoning
Inspector, considered by the BZA, in accordance with §
152.057.
      APPLICANT. A person who is authorized by the provisions of this chapter
to file an application.
      APPLICATION. The completed form or forms and all accompanying documents,
exhibits and fees required of an applicant by the appropriate village
department, board or commission for an application.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person with express written consent to act upon
another person’s behalf.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). An automated device that provides bank
and financial institutional customers with cash withdrawal and other financial
services without the need for a bank teller.
      AWNING. A roof like cover that is temporary or permanent in nature, and
that projects from the wall of a building for the purpose of shielding an area
of a structure and constructed of a rigid supporting framework with a canvas,
vinyl or fabric covering.
      BANKS and FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Establishments engaged in deposit
banking. BANKS or FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS may include, but are not limited to,
commercial banks, loan or mortgage companies, stockbrokers, savings
institutions, credit unions and other similar uses.
      BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
mounted to a building or other structure at one or more edges.
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTAB- LISHMENT. Any place of lodging that provides
four or fewer rooms for rent on a temporary basis, is the owner, operator or
manager’s legal primary residence, is occupied by the owner, operator or
manager, at the time of rental, and where meals may be served to guests.
      BERM, LANDSCAPING. In the context of landscaping, buffer yard or
screening requirements, a mound of earth typically used to shield, screen and
buffer undesirable views and to separate potentially incompatible uses. See
also the definition of MOUND.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Conservation practices or protection
measures which reduce impacts from a particular land use. BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES for construction are outlined in “Rainwater and Land Development,
Ohio’s Standard for Storm-Water Management, Land Development, and Urban Stream
Protection” prepared by the State Department of Natural Resources.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Village Board of Zoning Appeals.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, that has a roof
supported by columns or walls, and intended for the shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a building as measured pursuant
to §
152.088(A)(5).
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building.
      BUILDING, NON-CONFORMING. A building that lawfully occupied a lot at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
currently conform to the regulations of the applicable zoning district.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The building containing the main or principal uses
on the lot.
      BZA. The Board of Zoning Appeals
      CABLE FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof (including
a renewal of an authorization which has been granted subject to 47 U.S.C. §§
522 and 546), issued by a franchising authority, whether such authorization is
designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate,
agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the construction or operation of a
cable system.
      CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
         (a)   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such cable
system; or
         (b)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE.
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service; and
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the
selection of such video programming or other programming service.
      CANOPY. A freestanding permanent roof-like shelter not attached to or
requiring support from an adjacent structure.
      CANOPY (TREE). The portion of a tree, formed by the plant crowns
(branches and leaves) that does not include the main trunk(s) of the tree or
its roots.
      CCO. Club Conservation Overlay.
      CEMETERIES. A place for interment of human or animal remains or cremated
remains, including a burial park for earth interments, a mausoleum for vault or
crypt interments, a columbarium for cemetery interments or a combination
thereof.
      CHURCHES and PLACES OF WORSHIP. A building used principally for religious
worship. The word CHURCHES and PLACES OF WORSHIP or CHURCH shall not include or
mean an undertaker’s chapel or a funeral home. Such places shall exist as
public buildings, and as such, shall meet state and local building codes.
      CLEAR ZONE (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION). The unobstructed, traversable area
provided beyond the edge of the through traveled way for the recovery of errant
vehicles. The CLEAR ZONE includes shoulders, bike lanes and auxiliary lanes,
except those auxiliary lanes that function like through lanes. As defined in
the “ODOT Location and Design Manual,” Volume 1, Section 600-Roadside Design.
      COLLOCATION or COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on a wireless support structure.
      COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT or RECREATIONAL USE (INDOORS). Any commercial
activity that is related to the entertainment or sports industry, except adult
entertainment establishments, that may include, but is not limited to, indoor
pools, bowling alleys, skating rinks, indoor tennis courts and similar
activities.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign, wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
      COMMON AREAS. Parcels of land, together with the improvements thereon,
the use and enjoyment of which shall be shared by the owners and occupants of
the individual building sites within a development.
      COMMUNITY GARDEN. A single piece of land that is gardened collectively,
as an accessory use, by a group of persons, that may include individual garden
plots designated for individual gardens.
      COMPLETED APPLICATION. An application that has been determined to be
complete in accordance with §
152.051(B)(3).
      CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTERS and PORTABLE TOILET FACILITIES. Temporary
facilities used for the collection of trash and solid waste on a construction
site.
      CONSTRUCTION TRAILER. A mobile home, trailer or similar temporary
structure that is used as an office or for storage in conjunction with a
construction project.
      CONVENTIONAL RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A major subdivision, as defined by
§ 1102.03(a)(111) of General Rules and Regulations for Plats and Subdivisions
in the Unincorporated Area of Summit County, Ohio (also known as the county
subdivision regulations), that is not classified as an open space residential
subdivision.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council.
      COUNTY. Summit County, Ohio.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic (to
another street) and where the other terminus is either a turnaround or is a
dead-end or stub street to an adjacent, undeveloped property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
      CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS. Public or private facilities used for display,
performance or enjoyment of heritage, history or the arts. This use includes,
but is not limited to, museums, libraries, art performance venues, cultural
centers and interpretative sites but does not include movie theaters.
      DAMAGED OR DISEASED TREES. Trees that have split trunk, broken tops,
heart rot, insect or fungus problems that will lead to imminent death, undercut
root systems that put the tree in imminent danger of falling, lean as a result
of root failure that puts the tree in imminent danger of falling or any other
condition that puts the tree in imminent danger of being uprooted or falling
into or along a stream or onto a structure.
      DAY CARE CENTERS (ADULT OR CHILD). A facility operated for the purpose of
providing care, protection and guidance to individuals during part of a 24-hour
day. This term includes nursery schools, preschools, adult day care centers,
child day care centers and similar uses. DAY CARE CENTER does not include
public or private educational facilities or any facility offering care to
individuals for a full 24-hour period. See also definition for TYPE-B FAMILY
DAY CARE HOME.
      DBH. See DIAMETER-AT-BREAST HEIGHT.
      DECIDE. When used in reference to a review procedure outlined in §§
152.050 through
152.059, the Zoning Inspector, board or commission with decision making
authority shall have made a final judgment or decision on the subject
application.
      DECKS. A flat surface attached to a building that does not have walls or
a roof and that is elevated above the ground, at its highest point, by at least
18 inches. DECKS are not used as habitable space.
      DECORATIVE POLE. A pole, arch or structure other than a street light pole
placed in the public way specifically designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments have been placed except
for any of the following:
         (a)   Electric lighting;
         (b)   Specially designed informational or directional signage; and/or
         (c)   Temporary holiday or special event attachments.
      DEFINED CHANNEL. A natural or human-made depression in the terrain which
is maintained and altered by the water and sediment it carries.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the gross
area of a site (including streets, easements, rights-of-way, open space set-
asides and/or other public dedications established as part of the development).
      DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the gross
area of the site minus any land used for streets, easements, rights-of-way,
open space set-asides and/or other public dedications.
      DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES. Accessory buildings or
structures that are detached from the principal building or structure
including, but not limited to, garages, gazebos, permanent outdoor kitchens (if
they require a water, sewer or building permit), storage sheds and other
structures.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved land,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings or other
structure, mining, dredging, filing, grading, paving, excavation or drilling.
      DEVELOPMENT REVIEW. The procedure for evaluating an application and
making a recommendation or decision as outlined in §§
152.050 through
152.059.
      DIAMETER-AT-BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). Used to measure the diameter of a tree
trunk at the specific height of four and one-half feet above the ground.
      DISTRICT. See ZONING DISTRICT.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Includes, but not be limited to, horses, cows, llamas,
goats, pigs, hogs, mink and fowl. DOMESTIC ANIMAL shall not include household
pets.
      DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES. An establishment that encourages or permits
customers to receive services, or obtain goods while remaining in their motor
vehicles.
      DRIVEWAY. A private way, other than a street or alley, that provides
access to one lot of record for the use of vehicles and pedestrians unless
approval has been granted for a shared DRIVEWAY in which case, the DRIVEWAY may
serve multiple uses.
      DROP-OFF BOX. A small outdoor collection facility for use by the public
who can deposit recyclable materials, clothing or household goods.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof used exclusively for permanent
residential purposes, including single-family, two-family and other attached
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, tents, recreational vehicle,
cabins or boarding or lodging houses.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit of one or more rooms providing complete,
permanent independent living facilities for one or more persons including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation but
not including a tent, cabin, hotel, motel, recreational vehicle or other
temporary or transient structure or facility. A DWELLING UNIT shall not include
a mobile home or recreational vehicle, camping equipment or a manufactured home
except for permanently sited manufactured homes that conform to the
requirements for such uses.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A building or portion thereof designed for or used
exclusively for residential purposes by three or more families or housekeeping
units. ATTACHED DWELLINGS shall include apartment buildings, condominiums,
elderly housing and buildings where three or more dwellings are attached by
common walls or floors within a single structure.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively for
residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
      EASEMENT. Written authorization by a property owner for the use by
another, for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her
property.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE). Buildings or structures in
which students are taught. EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS may include primary
schools, elementary schools, middle schools or high schools. EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS shall not include colleges, vocational schools and other similar
uses.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign whose alphabetic, pictographic or
symbolic information content can be changed or altered on a fixed display
surface composed of electrically illuminated or mechanically driven changeable
segments.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION). The same as defined
by the FCC in 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)(2), as may be amended, which defines that
term as any request for modification of an existing support structure that does
not substantially change the physical dimensions of such support structure,
involving:
         (a)   Collocation of new small cell facilities;
         (b)   Removal of small cell facilities; or
         (c)   Replacement of small cell facilities.
      ENTRANCE MONUMENT. A fence, wall or sign located at the entrance of a
subdivision or development that identifies the name of the subdivision or
development.
      ESTATE SALE, TAG SALE or AUCTION (THIRD-PARTY SALE). A temporary event
for the sale of personal possessions or property that is organized or conducted
by a third-party that includes, but is not limited to, any sale entitled estate
sale, tag sale, auction or third-party sale.
      EXOTIC ANIMALS. Any cat, other than felis catus; any canine, other than
canis familiaris; non-human primates; poisonous reptiles; crocodiles; bears;
kangaroos; eagles and similar animals as defined by the state statutes.
      EXPANSION. An increase in the size of an existing structure or use,
including physical size of the land, building, parking or other improvements or
structures.
      EXTERIOR LIGHTING. Any source of light that is installed or mounted
outside of a building or structure, but not including streetlights installed or
maintained along public streets by a government agency or public utility.
      EYEBROW (STREET OR ROAD). A rounded expansion of a street beyond the
normal curb line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
      FAÇADE. The exterior wall of a building parallel to the frontage line or
the street that fronts the parcel on which the building is located. FAÇADES may
be on the front, side or rear elevation of the building regardless of whether
the building side faces a street.
      FARM MARKET or ROADSIDE FARM STAND. The use of any land or a structure
for the sale of produce in accordance with the provisions of §
152.210.
      FCC. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission and any legally
appointed, designated or elected agent or successor.
      FEDERAL EMERGENCY MAN- AGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
      FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, the agency with the
overall responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
      FENCE. A structure that serves to screen an area, enclose an area or
separate two spaces that has a height and length greater than its thickness and
that is constructed of a wood, metal, wire, vinyl, composite or other similar
material that may or may not be a solid material. See WALL.
      FLAG. Any fabric or other flexible material attached to or designed to be
flown from a flagpole or similar device.
      FLAGPOLE. A pole that can be permanently affixed in the ground or to a
building that is used for the sole purpose of flying a flag.
      FLOODPLAIN. The 100-year regulatory FLOODPLAIN as currently defined by
FEMA and illustrated on the applicable National Flood Insurance Program flood
insurance rate map.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of
the principal building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerline of common walls separating two buildings. The floor area
of a building shall include all livable spaces including the basement FLOOR
AREA when more than one-half of the basement height is above the finished lot
grade level at the front of the building; interior balconies and mezzanines;
enclosed porches and floor area devoted to accessory uses. Garages shall not be
included in the FLOOR AREA of a structure.
      FLOOR AREA, MINIMUM LIVING. Consists of areas such as living room,
bedroom, bathroom, dining room, rooms for cooking, den, library and family
rooms, but shall not include areas such as porches, breezeways, basements,
terraces and garages.
      FOOT CANDLE. A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of
which are one foot from a uniform point source of one candle.
      FOOTPRINT. The area of a building measured from the exterior surface of
the exterior walls at grade level.
      FRANCHISE AUTHORITY (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION). See CABLE FRANCHISE.
      FRONTAGE, BUILDING. The length of the façade of an enclosed building
facing a public or private street.
      FRONTAGE, STREET. The distance for which the front boundary line of the
lot and the street line are coincident.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
      FUNERAL HOMES. A building or part thereof used for human funeral
services. It may include space for the embalming and other services used in the
preparation of the dead for burial; the storage of caskets, funeral urns and
other related uses and supplies; the storage of funeral vehicles; facilities
for cremation; and chapels.
      GARAGE. An accessory building primarily intended for and used for the
enclosed storage or shelter of private motor vehicles of the owner or occupant
of the principal building.
      GARAGE SALES. A temporary event for the sale of used or surplus personal
possessions that is organized and conducted by residents of the dwelling unit
where the sale occurs. The GARAGE SALE may include, but is not limited to, all
sales entitled garage, yard, lawn, basement, attic, porch, room, tent,
backyard, patio or moving sale.
      GARDEN. A piece of ground where ornamental trees, shrubs, herbs, fruits,
vegetables and similar vegetation is cultivated for use by the occupants of the
premises.
      GAS AND OIL WELLS. A hole bored into the earth that produces natural
gases and oils that are brought to the surface for further refining and
distribution.
      GASOLINE STATIONS. A building or part of a building or structure or space
for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels, lubricants and other automobile
accessories and for minor services and repairs of automobiles not accompanied
by objectionable noises, fumes, dusts or odors.
      GENERAL OFFICES (ADMIN- ISTRATIVE, PROFESSIONAL, BUSINESS).
Establishments providing executive, management, administrative or professional
services including, but not limited to, real estate, architecture, legal,
travel, employment, advertising, design, engineering, accounting and similar
uses.
      GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION). Those requirements
established in §
152.175 for the design, construction and installation of small cell facilities
and wireless support structures in the right-of-way, which are supplemented by
design guidelines, and which are effective insofar as they do not conflict with
state or federal law, including without limitation any applicable FCC rules and
regulations.
      GLARE. Direct light that causes annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
      GOVERNMENT OFFICES AND BUILDINGS. Buildings or office space utilized for
the provision of services by the village or the federal government.
      GOVERNMENTAL UTILITIES. Infra- structure or facilities used in the
completion or assistance of the performance of a public service within the
village, including, but not limited to, the providing of energy, internet and
related services, sanitary or storm sewer, and waste collection to residents of
the village.
      GRADE. The average of the finished ground level at the center of all
walls of a building. In case walls are parallel to and within five feet of a
sidewalk, the above ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk, unless
otherwise defined herein.
      GROUND COVER. A plant growing less than two feet in height at maturity
that is grown for ornamental purposes. GROUND COVERS are used as an alternative
to grasses. On slopes, ground covers control erosion while eliminating the
maintenance of mowing on hillsides. GROUND COVERS also provide permanent
covering of open ground to prevent erosion and/or create visual appeal.
      HEDGE. A line of closely spaced shrubs and tree species, planted and
trained in such a way as to form a barrier, screen or to mark the boundary of
an area.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession which is incidental to and
carried on entirely within a dwelling unit excluding an attached garage or
patio area, by resident occupants of the dwelling unit and which occupation is
clearly incidental to and accessory to the residential use of the property.
      HOTEL and MOTEL. A building in which lodging, with or without meals, is
offered for compensation and in which there are more than five sleeping rooms.
HOTELS and MOTELS may include typical accessory uses within the principal
building including, but not limited to, swimming pools, bars and restaurants.
      HOUSEHOLD PETS. Any animal commonly kept inside a residence such as a dog
or cat.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. One or more related or non-related persons lawfully
occupying a dwelling unit and living together as a single group on a permanent
basis, and doing their own cooking and sleeping on the premises as
distinguished from a group temporarily occupying a bed and breakfast
establishment, hotel, motel or group home.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any hard-surfaced, human-made area that does not
readily absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, buildings,
roofs, parking areas, driveways, sidewalks and pavement.
      INSTITUTIONS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION. Buildings or structures in which
students are taught at a level beyond primary schools, elementary schools,
middle schools and high schools. HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS shall include,
but not be limited to, colleges, vocational schools, universities, training
centers and other similar uses.
      INSTITUTIONS FOR HUMAN MEDICAL CARE. A facility providing physical or
mental health services, outpatient care, inpatient accommodations and medical
or surgical care of the sick or injured.
      INTERMITTENT STREAM. A natural waterway that contains water throughout
the year except during periods of low precipitation.
      KEEPING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS. The keeping, raising and caring of domestic
animals on a lot as an accessory to a principal use.
      KNUCKLE (STREET OR ROAD) CONFIGURATION. When a turnaround (typically seen
at the termination of a cul-de-sac) is located at the intersection of two
streets, allowing large street frontage for a limited number of lots. A KNUCKLE
differs from a cul-de-sac in that there is no straight portion of a street
connecting the turnaround to the adjacent intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
      LANDSCAPE MATERIAL. Consists of:
      (1)   Material such as, but not limited to, living trees, shrubs, vines,
lawn grass, ground cover and landscape water features; and
      (2)   Non-living durable material commonly used in landscaping,
including, but not limited to, rocks, pebbles, sand, decorative walls and
fences, brick pavers, and earthen mounds, but excluding pavements for vehicular
use.
      LANDSCAPING. The improvement of a lot, parcel, tract of land or portion
thereof, with grass, shrubs and trees. LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian
walks, flower beds, trees, shrubs and ornamental objects such as fountains,
statuary and other similar natural and artificial objects.
      LATTICE AND ANTENNA TOWER. A framework or structure of crossed metal
strips typically resting on three or more members constructed vertically to
which antennas are affixed.
      LIGHT TRESPASS. Light emitted by a lighting fixture that falls beyond the
boundaries of the property on which the fixture is installed.
      LIGHT, CUTOFF. An artificial outdoor light source designed to ensure that
no light is directly emitted above a horizontal line parallel to the ground as
regulated and illustrated in §
152.227.
      LIGHT, NON-CUTOFF. An artificial outdoor light source designed to allow
light to be directly emitted above a horizontal line parallel to the ground as
regulated and illustrated in §
152.227.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or a
group of such buildings, and accessory buildings, or utilized for the principal
use and accessory use.
      LOT. A parcel of land that is part of a plat, legally recorded in the
County Recorder’s Office, occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
use or structure, together with any accessory structures or uses and such
accessways, parking area, yards and open spaces required in this chapter.
      LOT AREA. The total area within the lot lines of a lot as measured in
accordance with §
152.088.
      LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is covered by the principal and
accessory building, structures and surfaces that prevent the passage or
absorption of stormwater including paving and driveways (impervious surfaces).
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line, which is coterminous with the street
right-of-way. A FRONT LOT LINE is generally parallel to or less than 45 degrees
to the rear lot line. The FRONT LOT LINE is generally opposite the rear lot
line except as may be identified in §
152.088(A).
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line opposite a front yard. A REAR LOT LINE is
generally parallel to or less than 45 degrees to the front street right-of-way
line. See §
152.088(A).
      LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line generally extending perpendicular to the front
and rear lot lines. The SIDE LOT LINE extends between the front lot line and
the rear lot line. See §
152.088(A).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
      LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map filed with the County Recorder of Deeds, and which actually
exists as so shown.
      LOT WIDTH AT THE BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The horizontal distance between
the side lot lines measured at the two points where the building line, or
setback line, intersects the side lot lines. See §
152.088(A)(4).
      LOT WIDTH AT THE STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The horizontal distance between the
side lot lines measured along the street right-of way. See §
152.088(A)(4).
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street, and in either case forming
an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT, CUL-DE-SAC OR CURVED STREET. A lot with frontage along a curved
street or cul-de-sac.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
      LOT, FLAG. A lot that has limited frontage on a public street and where
access to the public street is through a narrow strip of land.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot that has a single street frontage, a rear lot line,
and at least two side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
      LOT, NON-CONFORMING. A vacant lot that does not meet the minimum lot
width, street frontage and/or lot area requirements of the applicable zoning
district.
      MAIN USE. See definition of USE, PRINCIPAL under the broader definition
of USE.
      MAXIMUM EXTENT FEASIBLE. That no feasible and prudent alternative exists,
and all possible efforts to comply with the regulation or minimize the
potential harm or adverse impacts have been undertaken. Economic considerations
may be taken into consideration.
      MEDICAL AND DENTAL OFFICES. Office or clinic uses concerned with the
diagnosis, treatment and care of human beings. This definition does not include
hospitals, skilled nursing facilities or personal care facilities.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility that is not more than 24
inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height and that does not
have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length suspended on cable
strung between wireless support structures.
      MIXED USE BUILDING. A building that contains a commercial or office use
and an attached residential use within a single building as provided for in
this chapter.
      MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. A lot, tract or parcel of land with two or more
different uses, including, but not limited to, residential, office, retail,
public uses, personal service or entertainment uses, designed, planned and
constructed as a unit.
      MONOPOLE. A single, slender and typically cylindrical, vertical structure
to which antennas or antenna support structures are affixed.
      MOUND. A mound or landscaping berm formed as a result of human-made
grading and/or excavation.
      MUD. Mixed use development.
      NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating only the name and/or address of the person,
business or activity occupying the lot or the buildings.
      NON-CONFORMITY. A use, lot, structure, building, sign or lighting that
does not comply with the provisions of this Zoning Code. See also the
definitions for USE, NON-CONFORMING, LOT OF RECORD, BUILDING, NON-CONFORMING
AND STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING.
      NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, is provided for money or any other
form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling class or studio
is not a NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO and is not subject to this chapter if
it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or semi-nude model
is on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY.
         (a)   The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area,
vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque covering; or
the showing of the female breasts with less than a fully opaque covering of any
part of the nipple.
         (b)   Regularly features or regularly shown means a consistent or
substantial course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited
constitute a substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part
of the ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      O.A.C. The Ohio Administrative Code, as amended.
      OCCUPY OR USE (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION). With respect to the right-of-way,
to place a tangible thing in the right-of-way for any purpose, including, but
not limited to, constructing, repairing, positioning, maintaining or operating
lines, poles, pipes, conduits, ducts, equipment or other structures,
appurtenances or facilities necessary for the delivery of public utility
services or any services provided by a cable operator.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the village, as amended.
      OHIO MANUAL OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES or OMUTCD. The uniform
system of traffic control devices promulgated by the State Department of
Transportation.
      OHIO RAPID ASSESSMENT METHOD. A multi-parameter qualitative index
established by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to evaluate wetland
quality and function.
      OPEN SPACE. Any park or recreational facility where there is no material
disturbance of the existing topographic contours of the land for any purpose,
including, but not limited to, the construction of facilities, lighting or
developing of ball fields except that passive parks, recreational facilities
and OPEN SPACE may include the construction and use of trails and sidewalks.
      OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A major subdivision, as defined and
regulated by the county subdivision regulations (as amended thereto).
      ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK. The point of the bank or shore to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a district
marked by erosion, destruction or prevention of woody terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized characteristic.
The ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK defines the channel of a stream.
      OSC. Open Space Conservation Overlay.
      OUTDOOR DINING. Areas on sidewalks (public or private), patios or other
unenclosed areas, excluding vehicular use areas, which are designated for
outdoor seating where patrons may be served food and beverage for on-site
dining.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY. The seasonal storage and display of products
or materials for sale outside of a retail or wholesale sales establishment.
      OWNER. A person recorded as such on official real estate records and
including duly authorized agent, purchaser, devisee and person having a vested
or contingent interest in the property in question.
      PARAPET or PARAPET WALL. The portion of a building wall that rises above
the roof level.
      PARCEL. A distinct portion or tract of land as is recorded and
distinguished in the County Auditor’s property tax atlas. See also definition
of LOT.
      PARKING AISLE. The driveway or access drive by which a car enters and
departs a parking space.
      PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along with
adequate drives and aisles, for maneuvering, so as to provide access for
entrance and exit for the parking of more than two vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE.  A designated parking area designed for one vehicle that
is exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving access thereto.
      PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS and GOLF COURSES (EXCEPT MINIATURE). Any park or
recreational facility that requires grading of the land, construction of
facilities, lighting or is developed for ball fields, tennis courts, golf
courses, swimming pools, skate parks, disc golf and other similar outdoor
facilities but not including miniature GOLF COURSES.
      PERMANENTLY SITED MANUFACTURED HOUSING.  Building unit or assembly of
closed construction that is fabricated in an off-site facility and constructed
in conformance with applicable laws subject to the following:
         (a)   The structure is affixed to a permanent foundation and is
connected to appropriate facilities;
         (b)   The structure was manufactured after January 1, 1995; and
         (c)   The structure is not located in a manufactured home park as
defined in the state statutes.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, government agency, government
official, business trust, partnership, association, two or more persons having
a joint interest or any other legal entity.
      PERSONAL CARE. In addition to room and board, personal services such as
help in walking and getting in and out of bed; assistance with bathing,
dressing and feeding; preparation of a special diet; and supervision over
medications which can be self-administered.
      PERSONAL CARE FACILITY. A long-term or short-term residential facility
that provides personal care. Such FACILITY shall not mean the same as
institutions for human medical care, adult family homes or small residential
facilities, or adult homes or large residential facilities.
      PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Establishments that are primarily
engaged in providing services generally involving the care of the person or
person’s possessions. PERSONAL SERVICES may include, but are not limited to,
laundry and dry cleaning services, barber shops, beauty salons, health and
fitness studios, music schools, informational and instructional services,
tanning salons and portrait studios.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access services as
defined by federal law.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission.
      PLATTED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOP- MENT. A residential subdivision that has
been subdivided and a plat has been formally recorded in the offices of the
County Recorder.
      PLAY SETS or TRAMPOLINES. Recreational equipment for children that may
include, but is not limited to, small structures in trees, swings, slides,
monkey bars, trampolines and play enclosures.
      POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign advertising a political candidacy or
issue.
      POLLUTION. Any contamination or alteration of the physical, chemical or
biological properties of any waters that will render the waters harmful or
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare; domestic; commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate beneficial uses; or
livestock, wildlife, including birds, fish or other aquatic life.
      PORCHES. A structure attached to a building, that may or may not have a
roof, and is elevated above the ground, at its highest point, by at least 18
inches. PORCHES are not used as habitable space.
      PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS. A portable structure or container that allows for
storage of goods or materials, on or off-site and which is not permanently
affixed to a foundation and that is related to the construction, renovation or
rehabilitation of the building on which the site is located.
      PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing of a major subdivision for the purpose of
study and which, if approved, permits proceeding with the preparation of the
final plat.
      PRIVATE RECREATIONAL USES (OUTDOORS). Any outdoor commercial activity
that is related to the entertainment or sports industry such as outdoor
commercial swimming pools, driving ranges and similar activities. See also the
definitions for PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, AND GOLF COURSES (EXCEPT MINIATURE),
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION (INDOORS) and OPEN SPACE.
      PRODUCE. Fresh fruits, vegetables and grain, grown for sale to the
public.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting open to the public advertised in advance in the
local printed media, or as otherwise required by statute, concerning proposed
resolutions, amendments or other official village business which require public
participation and input.
      PUBLIC UTILITY or UTILITY. A facilities-based provider of wireless
service to one or more end users in this state, or any company described in
R.C. § 4905.03 and as further defined in R.C. § 4905.02, including, but not
limited to, the following types of companies: telephone, electric light, gas,
natural gas, pipelines, water works and sewage disposal systems.
      QUASI-PUBLIC, FRATERNAL OR SERVICE FACILITIES. A building or portion
thereof or premises owned or operated by a corporation, association or group of
persons for the promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics or
the like, but not operated for profit which is customarily carried on as a
business.
      QUORUM. The minimum number of members that must be present in order to
conduct official business or take official action.
      R.C. The Ohio Revised Code, as amended.
      RECESSED CEILING FIXTURE. An outdoor lighting fixture recessed into a
canopy ceiling so that the bottom of the fixture is flush with the ceiling.
      REINFORCED TURF. Grass grown on a special membrane that is laid over a
prepared bedding layer that includes a sub-base designed specifically to
support the temporary parking of motor vehicles while having the appearance of
a turf lawn.
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES. An establishment or facility for
carrying on investigation in the natural, physical or social sciences, or
engineering and development as an extension of investigation with the objective
of creating end products. Such establishment shall not include the
manufacturing or assembly of products beyond the development of prototype
systems or products. All activities shall take place within an enclosed
building.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A home or facility, as defined and regulated in the
state statutes, in which an intellectually or developmentally disabled person
resides, except the home of a relative or legal guardian in which an
intellectually or developmentally disabled person resides, a respite care home
certified under the state statutes, a county home or district home operated
pursuant to the state statutes, or a dwelling in which the only intellectually
or developmentally disabled residents are in an independent living arrangement
or are being provided supported living. See also ADULT FAMILY HOME and ADULT
GROUP HOME.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, LARGE. A residential facility where there is
supervision in a family setting of nine to 16 unrelated persons.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, SMALL. A residential facility where there is
supervision in a family setting of six to eight unrelated persons.
      RESTAURANTS and TAVERNS.
         (a)   RESTAURANT. An establishment with table service whose principal
business is the selling of unpackaged food and beverages to the customer in a
ready to consume state, in individual servings or in non-disposable containers;
provided that no drive-through window is permitted. For the purposes of this
definition, a RESTAURANT shall not include any drive-in or carry-out services
unless a drive-through facility is permitted as an accessory use.
         (b)   TAVERN. An establishment providing or dispensing, for on-site
consumption, any fermented malt beverage, malt beverage, special malt, vinous
or spirituous liquors. The sale of food products including, but not limited to,
sandwiches and light snacks may be a secondary use to the service of the
aforementioned drinks.
      RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale of
goods and materials to the general public. RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES may include,
but are not limited to, bookstores, antique stores, convenience stores,
bakeries, grocery stores and other similar uses.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below the paved or
unpaved portions of any public street, public road, public highway, public
freeway, public lane, public path, public bike path, public way, public alley,
public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive
and any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for the same now or
hereafter held by the village. A RIGHT-OF-WAY shall include those lands within
its proper use and meaning in the sole opinion of the Village Engineer, entitle
a permittee, in accordance with the terms hereof and of any right-of-way
permit, to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or operating any
poles, wires, cables, transformers, conductors, ducts, lines, mains, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments or other property,
infrastructure or facilities as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the provision of utility, cable television, communications or other services as
set forth in any service agreement or any right-of-way permit. RIGHT-OF-WAY
shall not include private easements.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY FEE. A fee levied to recover the costs incurred by the
village and associated with the occupancy or use of right-of-way.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, NON- RESIDENTIAL. A permit issued by the village
that must be obtained in order to perform any work in, on, above, within, over,
below, under or through any part of the public right-of-way, including, but not
limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching,
excavating, obstructing or installing, as well as the act of opening and
cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is part of the
public right-of-way.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, SMALL CELL. A small cell facility or wireless
support structure right-of-way occupancy permit as further defined in §
152.175.
      RIPARIAN AREA. A transitional area between flowing water and terrestrial
ecosystems, which provides a continuous exchange of nutrients and woody debris
between land and water. This AREA is at least periodically influenced by
flooding. RIPARIAN AREAS, if appropriately sized and managed, help to stabilize
banks, limit erosion, reduce flood size flows and/or filter and settle out
runoff pollutants or perform other functions consistent with the purposes of
this chapter.
      RIPARIAN SETBACK. The area set back from each bank of a stream to protect
the riparian area and stream from impacts of development, and stream side
residents from impacts of flooding and land loss through erosion; RIPARIAN
SETBACKS are those lands within the county that fall within the area defined by
the criteria set forth in this chapter.
      SALES OFFICES AND SHOWROOMS. Office or retail space designed to provide
an area to demonstrate or show certain goods and materials that are large-scale
or not necessarily a component of typical retail commercial uses including, but
not limited to, kitchen showrooms, plumbing supply sales, appliance showrooms,
office furniture supplies and the like. Such term shall not include buildings,
structures or lots used for the sale of vehicles.
      SATELLITE DISH. A parabolic dish antenna including its structural
supports, used for reception of various satellite television programming
signals.
      SCREEN or SCREENING. A visual shield between uses accomplished by the use
of berms, landscaping, walls or other aesthetic means.
      SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL SALES. A temporary structure or vehicle used in the
sale of agricultural products such as fruits, vegetables and juices where such
facilities may sell agricultural products not grown on site. SEASONAL SALES,
including the sale of such items as trees, pumpkins, seasonal produce and
similar agricultural products, which may be permitted on a temporary basis
pursuant to §
152.211.
      SEASONAL COVER. A temporary shelter for items including, but not limited
to, firewood, equipment, motor vehicles, recreational vehicles and similar
items, where such items are stored or parked for a temporary period of time or
season.
      SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SERVICE COMMERCIAL USES. Establishments that primarily engage in
rendering services to businesses including, but not limited to, printers,
equipment rental, protective services, mailing, photo finishing and other
similar uses.
      SETBACK. The minimum distance a building or structure must be built from
a lot line or road right-of-way as defined further in §
152.088.
      SETBACK LINE. The line created when applying the required setback
distance to a lot.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum distance required between a building,
structure or improvement and the front lot line.
      SETBACK, REAR. The minimum distance required between a building,
structure or improvement and the rear lot line.
      SETBACK, RIPARIAN. The area set back from the ordinary high water mark of
a stream to protect the riparian area and stream from impacts of development,
and stream side residents from impacts of flooding and land loss through
erosion. RIPARIAN SETBACKS are those lands within the village that fall within
the area defined by the criteria set forth in this chapter.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum distance required between a building,
structure or improvement and a lot that is shared with another lot where such
lot line is defined as a SIDE LOT LINE.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTAB- LISHMENT.
      (1)   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
         (a)   Two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for the
purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities; or
         (b)   Two or more persons appear nude or semi-nude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or semi-nude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
      (2)   An ESTABLISHMENT where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated by the state statutes, is not a SEXUAL ENCOUNTER
ESTABLISHMENT.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater,
adult theater or sexual encounter establishment. An establishment in which a
medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy,
including, but not limited to, massage therapy, as regulated by the state
statutes, is not an SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
does not include a nude or semi-nude model studio.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The conditional or permitted use of all or part of a
dwelling unit, by rental or short-term occupancy for dwelling, sleeping or
lodging. SHORT-TERM RENTALS include the arrangement of such rental by the owner
through a booking agent in connection with Airbnb or similar internet sites,
any other type of advertising or notification, or similar agreement.
      SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small
stems emerging from the ground, or small branches near the ground. SHRUBS may
be deciduous or evergreen.
      SIDEWALK. A pedestrian walkway within a right-of-way of a public street
but not on the street surface.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof situated
outdoors or adjacent to the interior of a window or doorway which is used to
advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event or location by any
means including words, letters, pictures, logos, figures, designs, symbols,
fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
      SIGN AREA. The entire display area of a sign including the advertising
surface located on one or more sign faces and any framing, trim and molding,
but not including the supporting structure as measured pursuant to §
152.298.
      SIGN FACE. The area or display surface used for the message. See §
152.298.
      SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lowest adjacent
grade to the highest point of the sign or sign structure. See §
152.298.
      SIGN PERMIT. A certificate where the Zoning Inspector has the authority
to make a decision on the application in accordance with §
152.053.
      SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign or sign structure which no longer correctly
directs any activity conducted or product available on the premises where such
sign is displayed.
      SIGN, A-FRAME. A sign consisting of two hinged boards that hang front and
back, with the hinge at the top or along the side.
      SIGN, ANIMATED OR MOVING. Any sign or part of a sign which changes
physical position by any movement or rotation or which gives visual impression
of such movement or rotation.
      SIGN, AWNING OR CANOPY. Any sign that is painted on, part of or attached
to an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover
over a door, entrance, window or outdoor service area identifying the name of
the owner and business, industry or any activity conducted within the premises.
      SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign such as a bulletin board, announcement
board or electronic message center, where the message or graphics is not
permanently affixed to the structure, framing or background and may be
periodically replaced or covered over by electronic or mechanical devices or
other means.
      SIGN, FEATHER. A long sign generally made of fabric and supported by a
single pole with the shape of a feather.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.jpg]
      SIGN, FLASHING. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation or any externally mounted intermittent light source.
      SIGN, GROUND-MOUNTED MON- UMENT. Any permanent or temporary sign placed
on the ground or attached to a supporting structure (not on poles or pylons)
and not attached to any building.
      SIGN, HANGING. A sign attached to a building and extending perpendicular
from the building wall.
      SIGN, HIGH-RISE. A sign that is supported from the ground by poles or
other types of supports that exceed four feet in height.
      SIGN, ILLEGAL. Any sign which is contrary to the requirements of this
chapter.
      SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of
this chapter, which does not conform to all the standards and regulations of
this chapter, as amended.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. Any sign, including billboards, that advertises or
otherwise directs attention to an activity not on the same parcel where the
sign is located.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign, which advertises or otherwise directs
attention to an activity on the same parcel where the sign is located.
      SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign permitted by this chapter to be located on the
premises for an unlimited period of time and designed to be permanently
attached to a structure or the ground.
      SIGN, PORTABLE (DAISY SIGNS). A sign not permanently affixed to the
ground, building or other structure, which may be moved from place to place,
including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of
wheels, and signs attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and visible from
the public right-of-way, unless such vehicle is used in the day-to-day
operations of a business.
      SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected, constructed, mounted or maintained upon or
over the roof or parapet wall of a building and having its principal support on
the roof or parapet walls of the building.
      SIGN, SNIPE. A sign that is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued or
otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences or to other objects.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign that is designed to be used only temporarily and
is not permanently, or intended to be permanently, attached to a building,
attached to a structure, or installed in the ground.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign fastened to the wall of a building or structure (such
as a fence or wall) in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting
structure for or forms the background surface of the sign and which does not
project more than 18 inches from such building or structure. On a WALL SIGN,
the exposed face of the sign is in a plane parallel to the plane of said wall
or structure.
      SIGN, WINDOW. A sign that is applied or attached to the glass of a window
or door, or located inside a building within three feet of a window so that the
sign is visible and capable of being read from the outside of the building.
      SITE. Any lot, plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots
or parcels of land.
      SITE DEVELOPMENT. The improvement of a site in accordance with an
approved site plan and zoning certificate including construction of buildings
and structures and the rearrangement of land surface.
      SITE PLAN. The proposed layout of a lot showing all elements of the site
development as well as utility and drainage lines, and existing buildings,
structures, trees and vegetation to remain.
      SKILLED NURSING. In addition to room and board, those nursing services
and procedures employed in caring for the persons who require training,
judgment, technical knowledge and/or skills beyond those which the untrained
person possesses. It involves administering medications and carrying out
procedures in accordance with the orders, instructions and prescriptions of the
attending physician or surgeon.
      SKILLED NURSING FACILITY. A residential facility that provides skilled
nursing. Such FACILITY shall not mean the same as institutions for human
medical care, adult family homes or small residential facilities, or adult
homes or large residential facilities.
      SMALL CELL DESIGN GUIDELINES. Those detailed design guidelines,
specifications and examples promulgated by the Village Engineer for the design
and installation of small cell facilities and wireless support structures in
the right-of-way, which are effective insofar as they do not conflict with FCC
rules and regulations established in §
152.175.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A wireless service provider, or
its designated agent, or cable operator, or its designated agent, or a video
service provider, or its designated agent that operates a small cell facility
and provides wireless service as defined herein. For the purpose of this
chapter, OPERATOR includes a wireless service provider, cable operator or a
video service provider that provides information services as defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), and services that are
fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (SWECS). A wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine, tower and associated control or conversion
electronics that generates power for an individual property for the purpose of
reducing on-site energy consumption with a rated nameplate capacity of 100 kW
or less. This includes, but is not limited to, storage, electrical collection
and supply equipment, and transformers. Excess electrical power generated, and
not presently needed for onsite use, may be utilized by the applicable utility
company. The following are the definitions for the three types of systems
permitted in the village.
         (a)   BLADE TIP POWER SYSTEM TURBINES (BTPS). A wind turbine system
that is somewhat similar in appearance to the HAWT system but where there is no
gear or turbine shaft at the center of the system. The energy is generated from
the blade tips rather than the traditional central gear box of a HAWT.
         (b)   HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINES (HAWT). A wind turbine system that
is typically mounted to a pole where the rotating shaft of the turbine (e.g.,
motor shaft) is parallel to the ground and the blades are perpendicular to the
ground.
         (c)   VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINES (VAWT). A wind turbine system where
the rotating shaft of the turbine is perpendicular to the group and the cups or
blades rotate parallel to the ground.
      SNOW FENCE. A temporary fence designed to prevent or minimize the
drifting of snow across certain areas of a lot.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (SWCD). An entity organized under
R.C. Chapter 940 referring to either the Soil and Water Conservation District
Board or its designated employees, hereinafter referred to as the County SWCD.
      SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Clearing, grading, excavating, filling or other
alteration of the earth’s surface where natural or human-made ground cover is
destroyed, and which may result in, or contribute to, erosion and sediment
pollution.
      SOLAR PANELS. Structures designed to utilize solar energy as an alternate
for, or supplement to, a conventional energy system.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal: acts, real or simulated, of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, cunnilingus or fellatio; and/or fondling or other erotic
touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks or female breasts.
      STACKING SPACE OR LANE. A lane or area that is specifically designated
for cars to queue while utilizing drive-up or drive-through services at uses
that may include, but are not limited to, restaurants and financial
institutions.
      STAND-ALONE BASKETBALL HOOP. A basketball hoop and backboard that are not
attached to a structure.
      STATE. The State of Ohio.
      STATIC SIGN CHANGE. A change of messages that does not involve any
movement or animation other than an almost instantaneous change from one
message to another message. A STATIC SIGN CHANGE does not include any
transition or animation in the change of the message that may have the
appearance of fading in or out, sliding in from the side, rotating and the
like.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PRE- VENTION PLAN (SWPPP). The plan which describes
all the elements of the stormwater strategy implemented during and after
construction. The PLAN addresses erosion control and stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY TREATMENT. The removal of pollutants from urban runoff
and improvement of water quality, accomplished largely by deposition and
utilizing the benefits of natural processes.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it or if there is no floor above
it than the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A space under sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use.
      STREAM. A surface watercourse with a well defined bed and bank, either
natural or artificial, which confines and conducts continuous or periodical
flowing water, as defined by the state statutes, in such a way that terrestrial
vegetation cannot establish roots within the channel.
      STREAM CENTERLINE. The point or series of points along a stream located
exactly halfway between the ordinary high water marks on either side of the
stream. The ordinary high water mark is the point on the bank or shore up to
which the presence and action of the water is so continuous as to leave a
distinct mark either by erosion, destruction of terrestrial vegetation or other
easily recognized characteristic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.jpg]
      STREAMBANK. The ordinary high water mark of the stream or river,
otherwise known as the bank full stage of the stream or river channel.
Indicators used in determining the bank-full stage may include changes in
vegetation, slope or bank materials, evidence of scouring and stain lines.
      STREET FRONTAGE. See definition of FRONTAGE, STREET.
      STREET, PRIVATE. A street or roadway that has not been dedicated for
public use or accepted by the Village Council and is not maintained by the
village.
      STREET, PUBLIC. A publicly dedicated or owned right-of-way constructed to
the Village Engineer’s standards, intended or used for vehicular and pedestrian
movement, and, except where limited or controlled access, affording the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
      STREETSCAPE BUFFER. A strip of landscaped area located on private
property that runs parallel and adjacent to the applicable street.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong or modify the life of the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
      STRUCTURAL LAWN. An area of land intended to be used for temporary or
seasonal parking with structural plastic or concrete pavement materials under
the surface, allowing for the growth of grass through the pavement material,
having the appearance of a vegetated lawn.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground. All buildings are considered STRUCTURES.
      STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure (including buildings but not fences)
that is accessory and incidental to the principal building.
      STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING. A structure where the use is permitted in the
applicable zoning district but the structure does not meet the setbacks,
development standards, site development standards or other dimensional or
numerical standards for the applicable district.
      SWIMMING POOL. A structure, whether above or below grade level, designed
to hold water more than 18 inches deep with a total surface area exceeding 100
square feet, that is designed to be used for personal recreation (private
swimming pool) or as a recreational amenity to a larger development (community
swimming pool).
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The technology permitting the passage of information
from the sender to one or more receivers in a usable form by means of an
electromagnetic system and includes the term “personal wireless services.”
      TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENTS. A temporary use on private property that is not
usual or customary for that property and the zoning district in which the
subject property is located (e.g., festivals, circuses and other temporary
events).
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE FOR PUBLIC OR INSTITUTIONAL USES. A temporary
structure that is related and incidental to a use within the institutional use
classification that may include temporary classrooms or storage facilities.
      TEMPORARY TENT. Any structure used for living or sleeping purposes, or
for sheltering a public gathering constructed wholly or in part from canvas,
tarpaulin or other similar materials.
      THEATER AND ASSEMBLY HALLS. A building or part thereof used for housing
dramatic presentations, stage entertainments, motion picture shows or other
assemblies of people.
      TOLLING OR TOLL PERIOD. The pausing or delaying of the running of a
required time period.
      TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure or combination
thereof taller than 15 feet, including support lines, cables, wires, braces and
masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade.
      TREE, CANOPY. A tree that has an expected height at maturity greater than
40 feet and which produces significant shade because it has a crown that is
oval, round, vase-shaped or umbrella-shaped.
      TREE, DECIDUOUS. Generally, a tree that loses all of its leaves for part
of the year. Sometimes called a broad-leaf tree or a hardwood tree.
      TREE, EVERGREEN. A tree with foliage that is not dropped, or that remains
green throughout the year.
      TREE, ORNAMENTAL. A small to medium tree with an expected height of 20
feet at maturity and that is planted for aesthetic purposes such as colorful
flowers, interesting bark or fall foliage.
      TREE, UNDERSTORY. A tree that would occupy the understory of a forest in
a natural ecological situation. These types of trees are often referred to as
ornamental trees. Examples include redbud, hazel, alder, holly, hornbeam,
dogwood, witch-hazel and the like.
      TYPE-B DAY CARE HOMES (ONE TO SIX CHILDREN). A permanent residence of the
provider in which child day care is provided for one to six children at one
time and in which no more than three children are under two years of age at one
time. In counting children for the purposes of this definition, any children
under six years of age who are related to the provider and who are on the
premises of the TYPE-B DAY CARE HOME shall be counted. TYPE-B DAY CARE HOMES do
not include homes where all of the children being cared for are siblings and
the residence is the home of the siblings. TYPE-B DAY CARE HOMES do not include
any child day camp as defined in the state statutes.
      UNENCLOSED PATIOS. Uncovered, non-enclosed outdoor hard surfaced areas
that are no higher than 18 inches above the ground.
      URGENT CARE CLINIC. A medical facility, other than an institution for
human medical care or medical or dental office, where medical, mental health
and other personal health services are provided on an outpatient basis from on-
site staff on an as-needed, basis. Such CLINICS differ from medical or dental
offices in that doctors do not treat patients on a long-term, repeat basis but
instead, treat short-term illnesses or medical issues.
      USE. A purpose for which land, a building, lot, sign or other structure
is arranged, intended, designed, constructed, used, occupied or maintained.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use or building on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incident and subordinate to, those of the main use or building.
      USE, CONDITIONAL. A use permitted within a district only with a
CONDITIONAL USE permit approval from the Planning Commission. See §
152.055.
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. A use that lawfully occupied a building or land
until the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does
not conform to the use regulations of the applicable zoning district.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The principal use to which the premises are devoted and
the primary purpose for which the premises exist.
      USE, TEMPORARY. A use or building permitted to exist during periods of
construction of the main building or use, or for special events, but not
inhabitable.
      UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for, or used for the purpose
of, carrying lines, cables or wires for electric or telecommunications service.
UTILITY POLE excludes street signs and decorative poles.
      VARIANCE. A deviation from the requirements of this chapter that is
approved, approved with condition or denied by the BZA in accordance with §
152.056.
      VEHICLE. Any contrivance that is used in the public or private
transportation of one or more persons, is used in the transportation of goods
over public or private property on roadways or is used in a commercial or
agricultural enterprise. A contrivance that is designed to be pushed, pulled or
towed by any self-propelled vehicle is considered a VEHICLE.
      VEHICULAR USE AREA. Any paved ground surface area, except public rights-
of-way, used by any type of vehicle, whether moving or at rest for the
following purposes, but not limited to driving, parking, loading, unloading,
storage or display.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. A person granted a video service authorization
under R.C. §§ 1332.21 to 1332.34.
      VIEW SHED. The area that is visible from a specific view point.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Clinton, Summit County, Ohio.
      VILLAGE HALL. The village offices located at 7871 Main Street, Clinton,
Ohio 44216.
      WALL. A structure that serves to screen an area, enclose an area or
separate two spaces that has a height and length greater than its thickness and
that is constructed of stone, a masonry material or similarly solid material.
See also the definition of FENCE OR WALL, RETAINING.
      WALL, RETAINING. A structure that holds back soil or rock from a
building, structure or area. RETAINING WALLS prevent downslope movement or
erosion and provide support for vertical or near-vertical grade changes.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial waterway, such as a stream or river,
with a defined bed and channel and a definite direction of course that is
contained within, flows through or borders the community.
      WATERSHED An area of land that drains into a particular watercourse,
usually divided by topography.
      WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs
and similar areas. The three criteria that must exist on a site for an area to
be designated a wetland are hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation and WETLAND
hydrology.
      WING WALL. A wall secondary in scale projecting from a primary wall and
not having a roof.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
all of the following:
            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         (b)   The term includes small cell facilities.
         (c)   The term does not include any of the following:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
            2.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
      WIRELESS SERVICE. Any services using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public using
wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service as
defined herein.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A pole, street light pole, traffic signal
pole, a 15-foot or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting
small cell facilities, excluding decorative poles, utility poles or other
facilities used to supply traction power to public transit systems, including
railways, trams, streetcars and trolley buses.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications
facility is housed.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A tower including, but not limited to,
self-supporting lattice or monopole, which elevates the wireless
telecommunication antenna and may include accessory transmission and receiving
equipment.
      WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used for the transport of
communications service or any other electronic communications by coaxial,
fiber-optic cable or any other wire.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot and being
the distance between the street right-of-way and the nearest wall of the
principal building. Where the right-of-way line is not established, the right-
of-way shall be assumed to be 60 feet.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of a lot between the
side lot lines and being the distance between the rear lot line and the nearest
wall of the principal building. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be
considered parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
On both corner lots and interior lots, the REAR YARD shall be, in all cases, at
the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      YARD, REQUIRED. The minimum yard required between a lot line and the
building line in order to comply with the regulations of the district in which
the zoning lot is located.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
      ZONING CERTIFICATE. A certificate where the Zoning Inspector has the
authority to make a decision on the application in accordance with §
152.052.
      ZONING DISTRICT. A section or sections of the incorporated territory of
the village for which regulations governing the use of buildings and premises,
the height of buildings, development standards, yards, lot areas and other
standards are uniform.
      ZONING DISTRICT, BUSINESS. The B-1, B-2 and I-1 Districts are considered
BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS for the purposes of this chapter unless otherwise
specified.
      ZONING DISTRICT, RESIDENTIAL. The CD, R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts are
considered RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS for the purposes of this chapter unless
otherwise specified.
      ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector, his or her assistants, or any
other person designated by Village Council to perform the statutory duties of
the Zoning Inspector.
      ZONING MAP. The zoning districts map of the village.
      ZONING MAP AMENDMENT. An amendment or change to the official zoning map
of the village, reviewed and approved by Village Council in accordance with §
152.054.
      ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT. An amendment or change to the text of this chapter
reviewed and approved by Village Council in accordance with §
152.054.
(Prior Code, § 1105.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
DECISION MAKING ROLES AND AUTHORITY
§ 152.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify the roles and responsibilities
of various elected and appointed boards, and the duties of village staff, in
the administration of this Zoning Code. This subchapter also includes the
review procedures for zoning text and map amendments, zoning certificates,
appeals, conditional uses and variances.
(Prior Code, § 1109.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.031 ILLUSTRATION OF REVIEW AND DECISION MAKING BODIES.
   (A)   The table below summarizes the review and decision making
responsibilities of the entities that have roles in the procedures set forth in
this subchapter. Other duties and responsibilities of the entities are set
forth in subsequent sections of this subchapter.
   (B)   Even though not referenced in the table below, other boards,
commissions, government agencies and non-government agencies may be asked by
the Zoning Inspector, the Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals or
the Village Council, to review some applications, including, but not limited
to, map amendments (re-zonings), text amendments, appeals, variances and
conditional uses.
Procedure Section Village Planning   Board of Zoning     Zoning    Village
                  Council Commission Appeals (BZA)    Inspector Engineer
H   =   Hearing (public hearing required)
R   =   Review and/or recommendation
M   =   Meeting (public meeting required)
D   =   Decision (responsible for final decision)
Procedure    Section Village Planning   Board of Zoning     Zoning    Village
                     Council Commission Appeals (BZA)    Inspector Engineer
H   =   Hearing (public hearing required)
R   =   Review and/or recommendation
M   =   Meeting (public meeting required)
D   =   Decision (responsible for final decision)
Appeals      152.057                    H-D                 R1
Applications
and permits
for small
cell
facilities   152.058                                                  R-D
and wireless
support
structures
within the
right-of-way
Conditional  152.055         H-D                            R
use
Sign permit  152.053         R                              R-D
Variance     153.056                    H-D                 R
Zoning       152.052                                        R-D
certificate
Zoning text
or map       152.054 H-D     H-R                            R
amendment
Notes:
1   The Zoning Inspector or other staff shall forward all records of their
decision to the BZA including any staff report or summary that provides a
history of actions and decisions made in relation to the appealed action
The above is an illustration of the roles of the Zoning Inspector and village
boards and commissions in the review and decisions on all review procedures
subject to this Zoning Code
 
(Prior Code, § 1109.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.032 VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the Village Council shall have the
following duties:
   (A)   Initiate proposed amendments to the text of this Zoning Code and/or
the official zoning map;
   (B)   Review and decide on all proposed amendments to the text of this
Zoning Code and/or the official zoning map; and
   (C)   Perform all other duties as specified in the state statutes and as
specified in this Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 1109.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.033 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Village Council, for the purpose and intent of this Zoning Code, has
hereby created and established the Planning Commission, hereafter referred to
as the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Appointment and organization.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of five members who
reside in the incorporated area of the village, one of whom shall be the Mayor,
one of whom shall be a member of Council to serve for the remainder of his or
her term as a member of Council and three of whom shall be appointed by the
Mayor for terms of six years each.
      (2)   Each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
      (3)   Members of the Planning Commission shall be removable for non-
performance of duty, misconduct in office or other cause, by the Village
Council. Such removal may take place after a public hearing has been held
regarding such charges, a copy of the charges having been served upon the
member so charged at least ten days prior to the hearing, either personally or
by registered mail or by leaving same at his or her usual place of residence.
The member shall be given an opportunity to be heard and answer such charges.
      (4)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor and shall be
for the time remaining in the unexpired term.
   (B)   Roles and powers.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to initiate
proposed amendments to the text of this Zoning Code and/or the official zoning
map.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to review all
proposed amendments to the text of this Zoning Code and/or the official zoning
map and make recommendations to the Village Council.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to hear and
decide, in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code, applications
filed for conditional uses or for decisions upon other special questions on
which the Planning Commission is authorized by this Zoning Code to pass.
      (4)   In considering an application for a conditional use, the Planning
Commission shall have the power to impose such requirements and conditions with
respect to location, construction, maintenance and operation, in addition to
those expressly stipulated in this Zoning Code for the particular conditional
use, as the Planning Commission may deem necessary for the protection of
adjacent properties and the public interest.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall perform all other duties as specified
for village planning commissions in the state statutes and as specified in this
Zoning Code.
   (C)   Organization and bylaws.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson from its
membership and shall appoint a recording secretary, who need not be a member of
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may organize and adopt bylaws for its own
governance; provided they are consistent with state law and with any other
resolution of the village.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings shall be held at the call of the chair, or at the call of
any two members, and at such other times as the Planning Commission may
determine.
      (2)   All meetings shall be open to the public, except as exempted by
law.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions all of which shall be a public record,
unless exempted by law, and be immediately filed at Village Hall with the
Office Administrator.
   (E)   Quorum and recommendations.
      (1)   Any combination of three or more members of the Planning Commission
shall constitute a quorum.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall act when three members who are
eligible to vote and concur.
      (3)   Every recommendation shall be accompanied by written findings
specifying the reason for granting or denying the application, or making its
decision.
(Prior Code, § 1109.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.034 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA).
   The Village Council, for the purpose and intent of this Zoning Code, has
hereby created and established the Board of Zoning Appeals, hereafter referred
to as the BZA.
   (A)   Appointment and organization.
      (1)   The BZA shall be composed of five members who reside in the
incorporated area of the village, to be appointed by the Village Council.
      (2)   Members shall serve terms of six years from the time of their
appointment.
      (3)   Each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
      (4)   Members of the BZA shall be removable for non-performance of duty,
misconduct in office or other cause, by the Village Council. Such removal may
take place after a public hearing has been held regarding such charges, a copy
of the charges having been served upon the member so charged at least ten days
prior to the hearing, either personally or by registered mail or by leaving
same at his or her usual place of residence. The member shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and answer such charges.
      (5)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Village Council and
shall be for the time remaining in the unexpired term.
   (B)   Roles and powers.
      (1)   The BZA shall have the authority to hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, grant or refusal made by the Zoning Inspector, other village official
or administrative body of the village in the interpretation or enforcement of
the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   The BZA shall have the authority to hear and decide, in accordance
with the provisions of this Zoning Code, interpretation of the zoning map or
for decisions upon other special questions on which the BZA is authorized by
this Zoning Code to pass.
      (3)   The BZA shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in specific
cases, filed as herein provided, such variances from the provisions or
requirements of this Zoning Code as will not be contrary to the public
interest, but only in such cases where, owing to special conditions pertaining
to a specific piece of property, the literal enforcement of the provisions or
requirements of this Zoning Code would cause unnecessary hardship, and so that
the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. The
BZA may attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character and
other features of the proposed structure or use, as it may deem necessary in
the interest of the furtherance of the purposes of the Zoning Code and in the
public interest.
      (4)   The BZA shall have the authority to review and provide an
interpretation of the zoning map or zoning text whenever there is a question of
how the zoned districts or regulations of this subchapter are applied.
      (5)   The BZA shall have the authority to permit the substitution of a
non-conforming use existing at the time of enactment of this subchapter in
compliance with §§
152.320 through 152.328.
      (6)   The BZA shall have all other powers conferred upon village boards
of zoning appeals in the state statutes, or as authorized by the Village
Council in compliance with state law.
   (C)   Organization and bylaws.
      (1)   The BZA shall elect a chairperson from its membership and shall
appoint a recording secretary, who need not be a member of the BZA.
      (2)   The BZA may organize and adopt bylaws for its own governance;
provided they are consistent with state law or with any other ordinance or
resolution of the village.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings shall be held at the call of the chair, or at the call of
any two members, and at such other times as the BZA may determine.
      (2)   The chair, or in their absence, the acting chair, may administer
oaths and the BZA may compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   All meetings of the BZA shall be open to the public, except as
exempted by law.
      (4)   The BZA shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and official
actions, all of which shall be filed at Village Hall with the Office
Administrator, and shall be a public record, unless exempted by law.
      (5)   The BZA may call upon any village department for assistance in the
performance of its duties and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the BZA as may reasonably be required.
   (E)   Quorum and decisions.
      (1)   Any combination of three regular or alternate members of the BZA
shall constitute a quorum.
      (2)   The BZA shall act by resolution when at least three members who are
eligible to vote concur.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be a resolution, each of which
shall be accompanied by written findings of fact, based on testimony and
evidence and specifying the reason for granting or denying the application, by
case number under one or another of the following headings: interpretation;
variances; conditional zoning certificates; together with all documents
pertaining thereto.
   (F)   Modification of approval. No substantial modification of a variance
approval or conditional use approval, as determined by the Zoning Inspector,
shall be permitted without a new application and applicable fee pursuant to
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1109.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.035 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Village Council shall appoint a Zoning Inspector who shall serve as the
zoning inspector referenced in the state statutes.
   (A)   Roles and powers. The Zoning Inspector shall have the following roles
and powers.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of structures and land to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to review and decide
on applications for zoning certificates, sign permits and to ensure compliance
with this Zoning Code in accordance with the applicable procedures in this
chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to collect all fees
required for all applications.
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to provide input,
staff reports or other guidance to the Village Council, Planning Commission
and/or BZA, when requested.
      (5)   After written request from a person having a legitimate present or
future interest in the property, the Zoning Inspector shall have the authority
to issue a zoning certificate for any building or premises existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter, certifying, after inspection, the extent and kind
of use made of the building or premises and whether such use conforms to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to keep adequate
records of all applications and decisions on said applications.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to issue citations of
zoning violations and keep adequate records of all violations.
      (8)   The Village Council may also appoint additional personnel to assist
the Zoning Inspector in such roles and powers as outlined in this section.
      (9)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to seek the advice of
professional consultants, when authorized by the Village Council.
      (10)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to conduct
additional duties as designated by the Village Council or as specified in this
Zoning Code.
   (B)   Decisions.
      (1)   Any decision of the Zoning Inspector may be appealed in writing to
the BZA within 20 days of the Zoning Inspector’s decision pursuant to §
152.057.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall have appropriate forms for appeal
available, or such forms shall be accessible on the village website at the time
of denial.
(Prior Code, § 1109.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 152.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify the review procedures used in
the administration of this Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 1113.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.051 COMMON REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this section shall apply to all development review
applications and procedures subject to review under this Zoning Code, unless
otherwise stated.
   (A)   Authority to file applications.
      (1)   The person having legal authority to take action in accordance with
the approval sought shall file an application for any review in accordance with
this Zoning Code. The person having legal authority shall be the recorded
property owner or the duly authorized agent of the recorded property owner and
may be required to provide written proof of such authority at the time of
application.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and Village Council may initiate zoning
text and map amendments under this Zoning Code with or without an application
from the property owner who may be affected.
   (B)   Application contents.
      (1)   Submittal requirements.
         (a)   Applications required under this Zoning Code shall be submitted
in a form and in such numbers as established by the village and made available
to the public.
         (b)   The Village Council shall adopt the submittal requirements at a
regular Council meeting after hearing recommendations on the requirements from
the Zoning Inspector.
         (c)   The applicant shall attest to the truth and correctness of all
facts and information presented with the application.
      (2)   Submission of professional fees and costs.
         (a)   All persons submitting an application, license or other request
to the Village Engineer, Street Superintendent, Zoning Inspector, Planning
Commission and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be required to reimburse
the village for any professional fees and related costs associated with the
village’s review, analysis, inspection and other activity related to such
request.
         (b)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall establish a professional fees,
costs and review account for the village. The funds placed in this review
account are subject to the deposit and fee schedules described in divisions (B)
(2)(c) and (B)(2)(d) below.
         (c)   A professional fees and costs deposit shall accompany each
application, license or request submitted to the Village Engineer, Street
Superintendent, Zoning Inspector, Planning Commission and/or the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The deposit shall be placed in a professional fees, costs and
review account, which shall be maintained for each separate application,
license or request. The initial deposit shall be received before the village
will incur any professional fee or cost associated with the village’s review,
analysis, inspection and other activity related to an applicant’s request. The
specific amount for an initial deposit shall be established in the village fee
schedule as established in §
37.01. The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee may, on a case-by-case basis, assess
an applicant an additional deposit based upon anticipated future professional
fees and cost review of the size and scope of the project. At all times during
the pendency of an application, license or request where professional fees and/
or costs for the village are required, such fees and costs shall be charged
against the professional fees and cost deposit on a monthly and/or as needed
basis and a positive balance shall be maintained in an applicant’s professional
review account. The village shall give notice to an applicant once the balance
in the applicant’s professional review account reaches a $500 or lower balance
if an additional deposit will be required. Should the fees as set forth in
division (B)(2)(d) below consume the entire initial professional fees and costs
deposit, all reviews, consideration, deliberation and analysis of the subject
application, license or request by the village shall be suspended and no
further construction, work and/or further use shall be done by the applicant or
its agents until a supplemental deposit is assessed and deposited. The balance
of the deposit funds on hand, after fees are assessed to said applicant, shall
be returned to the applicant within 90 days of the final conclusion of the
project and any potential legal matter pertaining to the request, application
or license.
         (d)   The village fee schedule may also include a listing of typical
charges associated with the professional review, inspection or other conduct
required in association with any application, request or license submitted to
the Village Engineer, Street Superintendent, Zoning Inspector, Planning
Commission and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (e)   No approvals shall be granted for any application, license or
other request submitted to the Village Engineer, Street Superintendent, Zoning
Inspector, Planning Commission and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals unless and
until the required initial and/or supplemental deposit has been made; subject
to waiver of the deposit by the Mayor. The requirement for payment of
professional fees, as established under division (A) above, is non-waivable.
         (f)   The commencement, undertaking and/or completion of any
construction, grading, soil preparation or other activity conducted by an
applicant related to a project that requires a deposit under this code of
ordinances is strictly prohibited until an initial and/or supplemental deposit
has been made. Any such work completed without the submission of an initial
and/or supplemental deposit shall be subject to removal and/or demolition by
the village at the applicant’s costs.
      (3)   Complete application determination.
         (a)   The Zoning Inspector shall only initiate the review and
processing of applications submitted under this subchapter if such application
is determined to be complete.
         (b)   The Zoning Inspector shall make a determination of application
completeness within a reasonable time.
         (c)   If the application is determined to be complete, the application
shall then be processed according to the procedures set forth in this
subchapter.
         (d)   If an application is determined to be incomplete, the Zoning
Inspector shall provide notice to the applicant along with an explanation of
the application’s deficiencies. No further processing of an incomplete
application shall occur until the deficiencies are corrected.
         (e)   If the applicant fails to resubmit a complete application within
60 days of the notice provided by the Zoning Inspector pursuant to division (B)
(3)(d) above, the incomplete application shall not be reviewed, the applicant’s
original filing fee shall be forfeited and the incomplete application shall be
deemed withdrawn. No reconsideration of an incomplete application shall occur
after expiration of the 60-day period and an applicant in need of further
development approval under the Zoning Code shall, pursuant to all of the
original requirements of this division (B), submit a new application and filing
fee.
         (f)   If any false or misleading information is submitted or supplied
by an applicant on an application, that application shall be rejected.
      (4)   Refund of fees. Application or review fees are not refundable
except where the Zoning Inspector determines that an application was accepted
in error, or the fee paid exceeds the amount due, in which case the amount of
the overpayment will be refunded to the applicant.
      (5)   Submission schedule. The Zoning Inspector is authorized and shall
establish the submission and review schedule (including time frames for review
where not established within the state statues) for applications. The Zoning
Inspector may amend and update these requirements as determined necessary.
   (C)   Examination and copying of application and other documents. Documents
and/or records may be inspected and/or copied as provided for by state law.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   BZA hearing notice.
         (a)   Written notice shall be mailed to any party of interest
including each owner of property, as shown on the County Auditor’s current tax
list, whose land is contiguous to or directly across a street or roadway from
the property that is the subject of the application. Such notice shall be given
a minimum of ten days prior to the date of the public hearing. The failure of
delivery of such notice does not invalidate the notice.
         (b)   The village shall also give notice of such public hearing by
publishing a legal notice in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the county at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
      (2)   Constructive notice for all proceedings. The following shall apply
to all public notice requirements, regardless of decision making body.
         (a)   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or
invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice if a bona fide attempt has been
made to comply with applicable notice requirements. Minor defects in notice
shall be limited to errors in a legal description, typographical or grammatical
errors or errors of actual acreage that do not impede communication of the
notice to affected parties. Failure of a party to receive written notice shall
not invalidate subsequent action. In all cases, however, the requirements for
the timing of the notice and for specifying the time, date and place of a
hearing shall be strictly construed. If questions arise at the hearing
regarding the adequacy of notice, the decision making body shall direct the
agency having responsibility for notification to make a formal finding as to
whether there was substantial compliance with the notice requirements of this
Zoning Code, and such finding shall be made available to the decision making
body prior to final action on the request.
         (b)   When the records of the village document the publication,
mailing and/or posting of notices as required by this subchapter, it shall be
presumed that notice of a public hearing was given as required by this section.
   (E)   Computation of time.
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this
Zoning Code, the date of the application, act, decision or event, from which
the designated period of time begins shall not be included. The last date of
the period of time to be computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a
Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case the period runs until the end of the
next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday as observed by
the United States Postal Service.
      (2)   When the United States Postal Service is closed to the public for
the entire day which constitutes the last day of the period of time, then such
application, act, decision or event may be performed on the next day which is
not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday observed by the United States
Postal Service in which its offices are closed for the entire day.
   (F)   Conduct of public hearing.
      (1)   Rights of all persons. Any person may appear at a public hearing
and submit information or evidence, either individually or as a representative
of a person or an organization. Each person who appears at a public hearing
shall be identified, state his or her address, and, if appearing on behalf of a
person or organization, state the name and mailing address of the person or
organization being represented.
      (2)   Continuance of a public hearing or deferral of application review.
         (a)   An applicant may request that a review or decision making
bodies’ consideration of an application at a public hearing be deferred by
submitting a written request for deferral to the Zoning Inspector prior to the
publication of notice as may be required by this subchapter. The Zoning
Inspector may grant such requests, in which case the application will be
considered at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
         (b)   A request for deferral of consideration of an application
received by the Zoning Inspector after publication of notice of the public
hearing as required by this subchapter shall be considered as a request for a
continuance of the public hearing, and may only be granted by the review or
decision making body.
         (c)   The review or decision making body conducting the public hearing
may, on its own motion or at the request of the applicant, continue the public
hearing to a fixed date, time and place.
      (3)   Withdrawal of application. Any request for withdrawal of an
application shall be either submitted in writing to the Zoning Inspector or
made through a verbal request by the applicant prior to action by the review or
decision making body.
         (a)   The Zoning Inspector shall approve a request for withdrawal of
an application if it has been submitted prior to publication of notice for the
public hearing on the application in accordance with this subchapter.
         (b)   If the request for withdrawal of an application is submitted
after publication of notice for the public hearing in accordance with this
chapter, the request for withdrawal shall be placed on the public hearing
agenda and acted upon by the review or decision making body.
         (c)   In all cases where the applicant has requested the withdrawal of
an application, the application fee paid shall not be refunded.
      (4)   In the absence of any rule upon any matter of business not provided
for in foregoing rules or the state statutes, as so far as provisions for the
same are therein made, “Roberts’ Rules of Order,” shall be the standard of
parliamentary usage.
(Prior Code, § 1113.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-22-07, passed
3-15-2022)
§ 152.052 ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Applicability. A zoning certificate shall be required for any of the
following:
      (1)   New construction or structural alteration of each single-family
dwelling or attached dwelling, including related accessory structures, unless
otherwise exempted in this chapter;
      (2)   Any work or improvements to those portions of a lot located within
the riparian setback;
      (3)   Occupancy and use of vacant land in a residential zoning district;
      (4)   Temporary uses or structures in a residential zoning district that
require a certificate pursuant to §
152.211; or
      (5)   Any change in the use of a non-conforming use.
   (B)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Step 1: application. The applicant shall submit an application for
a zoning certificate for review and approval prior to submitting for a building
permit from the county. Such application shall include:
         (a)   The zoning certificate application and applicable forms
available from Village Hall;
         (b)   All such forms, maps and information as may be prescribed by the
Zoning Inspector to assure the fullest practicable presentation of the facts
for the permanent record; and
         (c)   All required fees as established in the village fee schedule.
      (2)   Step 2: review. The Zoning Inspector shall review the application
for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (3)   Step 3: decision.
         (a)   Within 30 business days after an application (Step 1) is
determined to be complete, the Zoning Inspector shall either approve and issue
the zoning certificate or deny the application and state in writing the reasons
for the action taken. Such statement of denial shall include, but not be
limited to, a list of regulations that would be violated by the proposed use,
and shall transmit one copy thereof to the applicant along with one copy of the
plot plan, signed, dated and noted as denied.
         (b)   In conducting the review of the application, the Zoning
Inspector may consult with any department, agency, public body, official,
company or individual necessary to determine whether the application complies
with the regulations of this subchapter. Any costs of review shall be borne by
the applicant, as stated in the village fee schedule.
         (c)   Upon approval, the Zoning Inspector shall give to the applicant
one signed copy of the zoning certificate and file the second copy of the
certificate with the Office Administrator at Village Hall to be maintained for
village records.
         (d)   If the application is denied, the applicant may submit a revised
application for review in accordance with this review procedure, or the
applicant may appeal the decision to the BZA in accordance with §
152.057.
   (C)   Review criteria.
      (1)   All applications for a zoning certificate shall demonstrate
conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   No zoning certificate shall be issued without evidence that the
responsible health authority has approved the proposed sanitary sewage disposal
facilities for the use for which the zoning certificate has been requested.
      (3)   No zoning certificate shall be granted to build any structure where
there is a proposed ingress or egress point to the roadway until the owner of
such property has secured a permit from the State Department of Transportation,
the County Engineer or the proper village official (whichever authority has
jurisdiction), for permission to install a culvert of the proper size and
specifications required by the respective authority and has completed the
installation of such culvert.
   (D)   Expiration.
      (1)   Construction shall begin within 12 months of issuance of a zoning
certificate. Construction shall be considered begun if the footers of the
structure have been installed.
      (2)   Failure to begin construction within 12 months shall result in the
expiration of the zoning certificate unless the applicant requests and receives
an extension from the Zoning Inspector for good cause.
      (3)   Where the zoning certificate is for a use of land or a structure,
such use shall be open or fully functioning within 12 months of issuance of a
zoning certificate or the zoning certificate shall expire.
      (4)   Construction shall be completed within 24 months of the zoning
certificate approval or the certificate shall expire. Construction shall be
considered complete when a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Zoning Inspector.
      (5)   Upon expiration of a zoning certificate, a new zoning certificate
application, including all applicable fees, shall be required before
construction.
   (E)   Temporary zoning certificate.
      (1)   Temporary buildings and uses that require a zoning certificate as
established in §
152.211, shall be required to obtain a temporary zoning certificate in
accordance with the procedure set forth above for approval of a zoning
certificate.
      (2)   A temporary zoning certificate shall be valid for a period of 30
days, unless the Zoning Inspector authorizes a longer period or in accordance
with §
152.211.
   (F)   Revocation of a zoning certificate.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall hereby have the authority to revoke an
approved zoning certificate or temporary zoning certificate if the information
submitted as part of the application is found to be erroneous or fraudulent
after the certificate has been issued.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector may also revoke a zoning certificate if the
applicant has not conformed with all applicable federal, state, county and
village regulations, resolutions and rules including, but not limited to, the
County Planning Commission, the County Engineer, the County Soil and Water
Conservation District, and the village sewer district.
(Prior Code, § 1113.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.053 SIGN PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. Sign permits shall be considered a form of a zoning
certificate, required by this subchapter and allowed for in accordance with the
state statutes.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   A sign permit shall be required for all new permanent signs,
certain temporary signs or sign changes as established in §§
152.295 through
152.306.
      (2)   All sign permits, unless otherwise specified in §§
152.295 through
152.306, shall be subject to review by the Planning Commission prior to the
Zoning Inspector making a decision.
      (3)   Temporary signs shall not be subject to review by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Sign permits shall be subject to the following procedure.
         (a)   Step 1: application. The applicant shall submit an application
for a sign permit for review and approval prior to submitting for a building
permit from the county. Such application shall include:
            1.   The sign permit application and applicable forms available
from Village Hall or accessible on the village website;
            2.   All such forms, maps and information as may be prescribed by
the Zoning Inspector to assure the fullest practicable presentation of the
facts for the permanent record; and
            3.   All required fees as established in the village fee schedule.
         (b)   Step 2: review and recommendation by the Planning Commission.
            1.   Within 30 business days after an application (Step 1) is
determined to be complete, the Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting
to review and make a recommendation on the sign permit application. The
recommendation shall be made to the Zoning Inspector who shall make the final
decision on the application.
            2.   The Planning Commission may refer to this chapter in making
its recommendation.
         (c)   Step 3: review by the Zoning Inspector.
            1.   The Zoning Inspector shall review the application for
conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
            2.   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Zoning
Inspector with amended information (e.g., drawings) where modifications are to
be made to the sign based on the Planning Commission’s recommendations.
         (d)   Step 4: decision.
            1.   Within 15 business days after the Planning Commission makes a
recommendation (Step 2), the Zoning Inspector shall either approve and issue
the sign permit (pursuant to the actual application or any amendment
application) or deny the application and state in writing the reasons for the
action taken. Such statement of denial shall include, but not be limited to, a
list of regulations that would be violated by the proposed use, and shall
transmit one copy thereof to the applicant along with one copy of the
application, signed, dated and noted as denied.
            2.   Upon approval, the Zoning Inspector shall return one signed
copy of the application and file the second copy of the application with the
Office Administrator at Village Hall to be maintained for village records.
            3.   If the application is denied, the applicant may submit a
revised application for review in accordance with this review procedure, or the
applicant may appeal the decision to the BZA in accordance with §
152.057.
      (2)   Signs that do not require Planning Commission review (e.g.,
temporary signs) shall be subject to divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(c) and (C)(1)
(d) above. Applicants may request that an application be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendations.
   (D)   Expiration.
      (1)   Construction of the sign shall be completed within 12 months of the
sign permit approval or the sign permit shall expire.
      (2)   Upon expiration of a sign permit, a new sign permit application,
including all applicable fees, shall be required before construction or changes
to the applicable sign.
   (E)   Revocation of a sign permit. The Zoning Inspector shall have the
authority to revoke a sign permit for the same reason and in the same manner as
a zoning certificate. See §
152.052(F).
(Prior Code, § 1113.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.054 ZONING TEXT OR MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Amendment initiation.
      (1)   Amendments or supplements to the Zoning Code or zoning map may be
initiated by:
         (a)   A motion of the Planning Commission;
         (b)   Passage of a resolution by the Village Council; or
         (c)   By the filing of an application by the owners (or their agents)
of property within the area proposed to be changed or affected by the proposed
amendment.
      (2)   If the Village Council initiates the amendment, the Council shall,
upon the passage of such resolution, certify such resolution to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Step 1: pre-application conference (optional).
         (a)   If initiated by the property owners, the applicant may request
to meet with the Planning Commission to discuss the initial concepts of the
proposed amendment and general compliance with applicable provisions of this
Zoning Code prior to the submission of the application.
         (b)   Discussions that occur during a pre-application conference or
any preliminary meeting with the Planning Commission are not binding on the
village and do not constitute official assurances or representations by the
village or its officials regarding any aspects of the plan or application
discussed.
      (2)   Step 2: application.
         (a)   Applications for any change of district boundaries,
classifications of property as shown on the zoning map or changes to the Zoning
Code text shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at Village Hall or
submitted through the village website.
         (b)   The application shall include all such forms, maps and
information, as may be prescribed by the Zoning Inspector to assure the fullest
practicable presentation of the facts for the permanent record.
         (c)   Each application initiated by property owners shall be signed by
at least one of the owners, or the owners authorized agent of the property
within the area proposed to be reclassified, attesting to the truth and
correctness of all facts and information presented with the applications.
         (d)   Applications for amendments initiated by the Planning Commission
or the Village Council shall be accompanied by the initiating board’s motion or
resolution pertaining to such proposed amendment.
         (e)   All applications shall be submitted with the required fees as
established in the village fee schedule.
      (3)   Step 3: public hearing and recommendation by the Planning
Commission.
         (a)   Upon adoption of a motion, certification of a resolution or the
filing of an application (certified as complete by the Zoning Inspector) for an
amendment (Step 2), the Planning Commission shall set a date for a public
hearing regarding the proposed amendment.
         (b)   The public hearing shall not be less than 20 or more than 40
days after the date the application (Step 2) was certified as complete by the
Zoning Inspector.
         (c)   Notification shall be given in accordance with the state
statutes.
         (d)   Within 30 days after the completion of the Planning Commission’s
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall recommend the approval, denial or
modification of the proposed amendment and submit such recommendation together
with such application or resolution, and the text and map pertaining thereto,
to the Village Council.
      (4)   Step 4: public hearing and decision by the Village Council.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the recommen- dation from the Planning
Commission (Step 3), Village Council shall set a time for a public hearing on
such proposed amendment.
         (b)   The date of the public hearing shall not be more than 30 days
after the date of the receipt of such recommendation from the Planning
Commission.
         (c)   Notification shall be given in accordance with the state
statutes.
         (d)   Within 20 days after its public hearing, the Village Council
shall either adopt or deny the recommendations of the Planning Commission. If
Village Council denies or modifies the Planning Commission’s recommendations,
not less than three-fourths vote of the membership of Council shall be
required.
   (C)   Effective date. Any amendment adopted by the Village Council shall
become effective 30 days after the date of such adoption unless otherwise
specified.
   (D)   Review criteria. The following criteria shall be used by the Planning
Commission and the Village Council in decisions regarding zoning amendments:
      (1)   The amendment is in accordance with and in the spirit of this
chapter;
      (2)   The applicant must justify the particular zoning being sought and
show that it is best suited for the specific site, based upon the policies of
the village; and
      (3)   Any other substantive factor deemed appropriate by the Planning
Commission or Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1113.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.055 CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Review procedure. The review procedure for variances and conditional
uses shall be as follows.
      (1)   Step 1: application.
         (a)   An application for a conditional use over which the Planning
Commission has original jurisdiction under §
152.033, may be made by any property owner, including an authorized agent, or
by a governmental officer, department, board or bureau.
         (b)   The application shall include all such forms, maps and
information, as may be prescribed by the Zoning Inspector to assure the fullest
practicable presentation of the facts for the permanent record.
         (c)   The Zoning Inspector shall transmit a copy of the application to
the Planning Commission.
         (d)   All applications shall be submitted with the required fees as
established in the village fee schedule.
      (2)   Step 2: public hearing with the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Upon application (Step 1), the Planning Commission shall fix a
reasonable time for the public hearing on any application, give at least ten
days’ notice in as noted in §
152.051(D) and give notice of such public hearing by publication in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the county at least ten days before the
date of such hearing.
         (b)   Upon the day for hearing any application, the Planning
Commission may adjourn the hearing in order to obtain additional information or
to cause further notice, as it deems proper, to facilitate the discussion and
decision on said application. In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons
previously notified and persons already heard need not be notified of the time
of resumption of said hearing unless the Planning Commission so decides.
      (3)   Step 3: decision.
         (a)   Within 30 days after the hearing concludes (Step 2), the
Planning Commission shall make a decision on the application.
         (b)   A decision of the Planning shall not become final until the
expiration of 30 days from the date of such decision unless the Planning
Commission shall find the immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary
for the preservation of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the
record.
         (c)   A certified copy of the Planning Commission’s decision shall be
transmitted to the applicant or appellant at the applicant’s address as shown
on the records of the Planning Commission. A copy shall be maintained by the
Zoning Inspector.
         (d)   In authorizing a conditional use, the Planning Commission may
attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character and other
features of the proposed structure or use as the Planning Commission may deem
necessary in the interest of the furtherance of the purposes of this
subchapter. In authorizing a conditional use with conditions, the Planning
Commission may require such other evidence, guarantee or bond as it may deem
necessary. The applicant shall be required to comply with the conditions.
         (e)   Failure to comply with the conditions of a decision shall be
deemed a violation of this Zoning Code.
         (f)   Any party adversely affected by a decision of the Planning
Commission may appeal the decision to the BZA.
         (g)   Approval of an application for a conditional use by the Planning
Commission shall constitute an approval of a zoning certificate.
   (B)   Conditional use review criteria. In reviewing conditional uses, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following:
      (1)   The use is a conditional use, permitted with approval by the
Planning Commission, in the district where the subject lot is located;
      (2)   The use is in accordance with the objectives of this Zoning Code;
      (3)   The conditional use will not substantially and/or permanently
injure the appropriate use of neighboring properties and will serve the public
convenience and welfare; and
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall also consider the following as
applicable to the subject application:
         (a)   The comparative size, floor area and mass of the proposed
structure(s) in relationship to adjacent structures and buildings in the
surrounding properties and neighborhood;
         (b)   The frequency and duration of various indoor and outdoor
activities and special events and the impact of these activities on the
surrounding area;
         (c)   The number of transit movements generated by the proposed use
and relationship to the amount of traffic on abutting streets and on minor
streets in the surrounding neighborhood;
         (d)   The capacity of adjacent streets to handle increased traffic in
terms of traffic volume;
         (e)   The added noise level created by activities associated with the
proposed use and the impact of the ambient noise level of the surrounding area
and neighborhood;
         (f)   The requirements for public services where the demands of the
proposed use are in excess of the individual demand of adjacent land uses in
terms of police and fire protection, and the presence of any potential fire or
other hazards created by the proposed use;
         (g)   The general appearance of the neighborhood will not be adversely
affected by the location of the proposed use on the parcel;
         (h)   The impact of night lighting in terms of intensity and duration
and frequency of use as it impacts adjacent properties and in terms of presence
in the neighborhood;
         (i)   The impact of the landscaping of the proposed use in terms of
maintained landscaped areas versus areas to remain in a natural state, and the
openness of landscape versus the use of buffers and screens;
         (j)   The impact of a significant amount of hard surfaced areas for
building, sidewalks, drives, parking areas and service areas in terms of noise
transfer, water runoff and heat generation;
         (k)   The potential for the proposed use to remain in existence for a
reasonable period of time and not become vacant or unused. Consideration should
also be given to unusual single purpose structures or components of a more
temporary nature; and
         (l)   Any other physical or operational feature or characteristic that
may affect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Expiration.
      (1)   For a conditional use approval, the applicant shall be subject to
the same expiration requirements as a zoning certificate. See §
152.052(D).
      (2)   Upon expiration of a conditional use approval, a new conditional
use application, including all applicable fees, shall be required.
   (D)   Continuation of existing uses conditionally permissible under this
subchapter.
      (1)   All legally established uses existing at the time of passage of
this subchapter or amendments thereto that are made a conditional use by a
zoning text amendment shall be issued conditional use permits within one year
after the passage of this subchapter or amendments thereto.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall issue such permits and may approve
the conditional uses as brought forth by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 1113.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.056 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Review procedure. The review procedure for variances and conditional
uses shall be as follows.
      (1)   Step 1: application.
         (a)   An application for a variance over which the BZA has original
jurisdiction under §
152.034, may be made by any property owner, including an authorized agent, or
by a governmental officer, department, board or bureau.
         (b)   The application shall include all such forms, maps and
information, as may be prescribed by the Zoning Inspector to assure the fullest
practicable presentation of the facts for the permanent record.
         (c)   The Zoning Inspector shall transmit a copy of the application to
the BZA.
         (d)   All applications shall be submitted with the required fees as
established in the village fee schedule.
      (2)   Step 2: public hearing with the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Upon application (Step 1), the BZA shall fix a reasonable time
for the public hearing on any application, give at least ten days’ notice in as
noted in §
152.051(D), and give notice of such public hearing by publication in one or
more newspapers of general circulation in the county at least ten days before
the date of such hearing.
         (b)   Upon the day for hearing any application, the BZA may adjourn
the hearing in order to obtain additional information or to cause further
notice, as it deems proper, to facilitate the discussion and decision on said
application. In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously notified
and persons already heard need not be notified of the time of resumption of
said hearing unless the BZA so decides.
      (3)   Step 3: decision.
         (a)   Within 30 days after the hearing concludes (Step 2), the BZA
shall make a decision on the application.
         (b)   A decision of the BZA shall not become final until the
expiration of 30 days from the date of such decision unless the BZA shall find
the immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary for the preservation
of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
         (c)   A certified copy of the BZA’s decision shall be transmitted to
the applicant or appellant at the applicant’s address as shown on the records
of the BZA. A second copy shall be filed with the Office Administrator at
Village Hall for village records.
         (d)   In authorizing a variance, the BZA may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
structure or use as the BZA may deem necessary in the interest of the
furtherance of the purposes of this chapter. In authorizing a variance with
conditions, the BZA may require such other evidence, guarantee or bond as it
may deem necessary. The applicant shall be required to comply with the
conditions.
         (e)   Failure to comply with the conditions of a decision shall be
deemed a violation of this Zoning Code.
         (f)   Any party adversely affected by a decision of the BZA may appeal
the decision to the County Court of Common Pleas.
   (B)   Variance review criteria.
      (1)   Generally. The BZA shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in
specific cases, filed as hereinbefore provided, such variances from the
provisions or requirements of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest. Where an applicant seeks a variance, said applicant shall be
required to supply evidence that demonstrates that the literal enforcement of
this chapter will result in practical difficulty for an area/dimensional
variance or unnecessary hardship for a use variance. The factors for an area/
dimensional variance and use variance, as individually specified in this
section, shall be considered and weighed by the BZA.
      (2)   Area/dimensional variance.
         (a)   The following factors shall be considered and weighed by the BZA
to determine practical difficulty:
            1.   Whether special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land or structure involved and which are not applicable
generally to other lands or structures in the same zoning district; examples of
such special conditions or circumstances are: exceptional irregularity,
narrowness, shallowness or steepness of the lot, or adjacency to non-conforming
and inharmonious uses, structures or conditions;
            2.   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable
return or whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the
variance;
            3.   Whether the variance is substantial and is the minimum
necessary to make possible the reasonable use of the land or structures;
            4.   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer substantial
detriment as a result of the variance;
            5.   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services such as sewer and trash pickup;
            6.   Whether special conditions or circumstances exist as a result
of actions of the owner;
            7.   Whether the property owner’s predicament can feasibly be
obviated through some method other than a variance;
            8.   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement
would be observed and substantial justice done by granting a variance; and/or
            9.   Whether the granting of the variance requested will confer on
the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this regulation to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
         (b)   No single factor listed above may control, and not all factors
may be applicable in each case. Each case shall be determined on its own facts.
      (3)   Use variance. In order to grant a use variance, the BZA shall
determine that strict compliance with the terms of this subchapter will result
in unnecessary hardship to the applicant. The applicant must demonstrate such
hardship by clear and convincing evidence that all of the following criteria
are satisfied:
         (a)   The property cannot be put to any economically viable use under
any of the permitted uses in the zoning district in which the property is
located;
         (b)   The variance requested stems from a condition which is unique to
the property at issue and not ordinarily found in the same zone or district;
         (c)   The variance requested cannot otherwise be resolved by a zoning
map amendment;
         (d)   The essential character of the neighborhood will not be
substantially altered as a result of the variance;
         (e)   There is an existing structure that cannot be reasonably used
for a permitted use or a conditionally permitted use in the applicable zoning
district;
         (f)   The proposed use is listed in §
152.085;
         (g)   The hardship condition is not created by actions of the
applicant;
         (h)   The granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
rights of adjacent property owners or residents;
         (i)   The granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
public health, safety or general welfare;
         (j)   The variance will be consistent with the general spirit and
intent of this chapter;
         (k)   The requested use is permitted in another district in this
chapter; and
         (l)   The variance sought is the minimum that will afford relief to
the applicant.
   (C)   Expiration.
      (1)   For a variance, the applicant shall submit a completed application
for a zoning certificate within six months of the BZA decision.
      (2)   A variance approval shall expire if a completed zoning certificate
application has not been submitted to the Zoning Inspector within six months of
the BZA’s decision. The applicant may request an extension of an additional six
months if such request is submitted to the Zoning Inspector in writing a
minimum of two weeks prior to the date of expiration.
      (3)   Upon expiration of a variance, a new variance application,
including all applicable fees, shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1113.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.057 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal applicability. An appeal to the BZA may be taken by the
applicant or any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Inspector or
administrative official in the enforcement of this Zoning Code. Such appeal
shall be taken within 20 days after receipt of notification of the decision, by
filing with the Zoning Inspector and with the BZA, a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof including applicable sections of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Review procedure. The review procedure for an appeal shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Step 1: filing of appeal.
         (a)   Upon the filing of an appeal, the Zoning Inspector shall
transmit to the BZA all the documents and other evidence constituting the
record.
         (b)   The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings unless the
Zoning Inspector or any affected person certifies to the BZA that, by reason of
facts pertaining to the matter in question, a stay, in his or her opinion,
would cause imminent peril to life or property. When such certification is
made, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order granted by the BZA.
         (c)   All appeals shall be submitted with the required fees, if
applicable, as established in the village fee schedule.
      (2)   Step 2: public hearing with the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Upon the filing of an appeal (Step 1), the BZA shall fix a
reasonable time for the public hearing on the appeal, give notice in writing at
least ten days prior to the hearing to the parties of interest and give notice
of such public hearing by one publication in one or more newspapers of general
circulation in the county at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
         (b)   Upon the day for hearing any appeal, the BZA may adjourn the
hearing in order to obtain additional information or to cause further notice,
as it deems proper, to facilitate the discussion and decision on said appeal.
In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously notified and persons
already heard need not be notified of the time of resumption of said hearing
unless the BZA so decides.
      (3)   Step 3: decision.
         (a)   Within 30 days after the hearing concludes (Step 2), the BZA
shall make a decision on the appeal.
         (b)   A decision of the BZA shall not become final until the
expiration of 30 days from the date of such decision unless the BZA shall find
the immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary for the preservation
of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
         (c)   A certified copy of the BZA’s decision shall be transmitted to
the applicant or appellant at the applicant’s address as shown on the records
of the BZA and to the Zoning Inspector. Such decision shall be binding upon the
Zoning Inspector and observed by him or her and he or she shall incorporate the
terms and conditions of the decision in the permit to the appellant, whenever
the BZA authorizes a zoning certificate.
         (d)   The BZA may, in conformity with the provisions of this section,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination as necessary; and to that end, shall have all powers
of the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken.
         (e)   Failure to comply with the conditions of a decision shall be
deemed a violation of this Zoning Code.
         (f)   Any party adversely affected by a decision of the BZA may appeal
the decision to the County Court of Common Pleas.
   (C)   Appeal review criteria. An order, decision, determination or
interpretation shall not be reversed or modified by the BZA unless there is
competent, material and substantial evidence in the record that the order,
decision, determination or interpretation fails to comply with either the
procedural or substantive requirements of this Zoning Code, state law or
federal law.
(Prior Code, § 1113.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.058 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS FOR SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURES WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The applicable application process for working on small cell facilities
within the public right-of-way is set forth in §
152.175.
(Prior Code, § 1113.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.059 PROFESSIONALS FEES AND COSTS; ACCOUNT ESTABLISHED; DEPOSIT BY
APPLICANT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Reimbursement. All persons submitting an application, license or other
request to the Village Engineer, Street Commissioner, Zoning Inspector,
Planning Commission and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be required to
reimburse the village for any professional fees and related costs associated
with the village’s review, analysis, inspection and other activity related to
such request.
   (B)   Account. The Fiscal Officer shall, subject to the approval of the
Mayor and a majority vote of Council, establish a professional fees, costs and
review account for the village. The funds placed in this review account are
subject to the deposit and fee schedules described in division (C) and (D)
below.
   (C)   Mandatory deposit with application. A professional fees and costs
deposit shall accompany each application, license or request submitted to the
Village Engineer, Street Commissioner, Zoning Inspector, Planning Commission
and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals. No such application shall be deemed
submitted until the deposit is made. The foregoing submission determination
based upon the filing of a deposit may be waived in the discretion of the
Village Engineer. The deposit shall be placed in a professional fees, costs and
review account, which shall be maintained for each separate application,
license or request. The initial deposit shall be received before the village
will incur any professional fee or cost associated with the village’s review,
analysis, inspection and other activity related to an applicant’s request. The
specific amount for an initial deposit shall be established in a schedule
created by the Mayor and approved by the Village Engineer and a majority vote
of Council. The Mayor may, on a case by case basis, assess an applicant an
additional deposit based upon anticipated future professional fees and costs.
At all times during the pendency of an application, license or request where
professional fees and/or costs for the village are required, such fees and
costs shall be charged against the professional fees and cost deposit on a
monthly and/or as needed basis and a positive balance shall be maintained in an
applicant’s professional review account. The village shall give notice to an
applicant once the balance in the applicant’s professional review account
reaches a $500 or lower balance if an additional deposit will be required.
Should the fees as set forth in division (D) below consume the entire initial
professional fees and costs deposit, all reviews, consideration, deliberation
and analysis of the subject application, license or request by the village
shall be suspended and no further construction, work and/or further use shall
be done by the applicant or its agents until a supplemental deposit is assessed
and deposited. The balance of the deposit funds on hand, after fees are
assessed to said applicant, shall be returned to the applicant within 90 days
of the final conclusion of the project and any potential legal matter
pertaining to the request, application or license.
   (D)   No construction, grading or other work until deposit made. The
commencement, undertaking and/or completion of any construction, grading, soil
preparation or other activity conducted by an applicant related to a project
that requires a deposit under this code of ordinances is strictly prohibited
until an initial and/or supplemental deposit has been made. Any such work
completed without the submission of an initial and/or supplemental deposit
shall be subject to removal and/or demolition by the village at the applicant’s
costs.
   (E)   No final approvals permitted until deposits all made. No approvals
shall be granted for any application, license or other request submitted to the
Village Engineer, Street Commissioner, Zoning Inspector, Planning Commission
and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals unless and until the required initial and/or
supplemental deposit have been made.
   (F)   Fee schedule. The Mayor shall create a fee schedule for various tasks
associated with the professional review, inspection or other conduct required
in association with any application, request or license submitted to the
Village Engineer, Street Commissioner, Zoning Inspector, Planning Commission
and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals. The fee schedule shall be created by the
Mayor with the approval of the Village Engineer and a majority vote of Council.
The fees shall be charged against the professional fees and cost deposit on a
monthly and/or as needed basis. The fees set forth in the schedule shall not
conflict with any other fee established by the code of ordinances.
(Ord. O-24-02, passed 5-21-2024)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.070 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The incorporated territory of the village is hereby divided into the zoning
districts established below.
Zoning Districts
District Designation Zoning District Name
Zoning Districts
District Designation Zoning District Name
B-1                  Downtown Canal District
B-2                  Warwick Business District
CD                   Conservation District
I-1                  Industrial District
R-1                  Rural Residential District
R-2                  Residential District
R-3                  High Density Residential District
 
(Prior Code, § 1117.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.071 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The zoning districts and their boundary lines are indicated upon a map
entitled “Zoning Districts Map of the Village of Clinton, Summit County, Ohio,”
duly adopted by Village Council, as amended; hereafter referred to as the
zoning districts map.
   (B)   The zoning districts map, together with all notations, references and
other matters shown thereon, are hereby declared a part of this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 1117.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-18-21, passed
11-20-2018)
§ 152.072 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
established zoning districts as shown on the districts map, the following rules
shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
streets, alleys, roads, highways or other thoroughfares, such boundaries shall
be construed to be the centerline of the right-of-way or easement upon which
the streets, roads, alleys, highways or other thoroughfares are located.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or alley lines of alleys, or the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as
being parallel thereto and at such distance from there as indicated on the
zoning districts map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 1117.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.073 VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   Whenever any street or public way is vacated in the manner authorized by
law, and the vacated public way is unzoned or it is unclear what the applicable
zoning district should be, the Village Council or Planning Commission shall
initiate a zoning map amendment (see §
152.054) to establish a zoning district(s) for the vacated public way.
(Prior Code, § 1117.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND PRINCIPAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.085 PURPOSE STATEMENTS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The following are the purpose statements for each of the zoning districts
established in this subchapter.
   (A)   CD Conservation District. The purpose of the CD Conservation District
is to:
      (1)   Preserve and protect the values of distinctive geologic,
topographic, botanic, historic or scenic area;
      (2)   Protect the ecological balance of an area;
      (3)   Conserve natural resources, such as river valley and tracts of
forest land; and
      (4)   Reduce the problems created by intensive development of areas
having excessively high water tables, or which are subject to flooding, or
which are topographically unsuited for urban type uses.
   (B)   R-1 Rural Residential District. The purpose of the R-1 Rural
Residential District is to accommodate residential development in areas which
cannot be reasonably serviced by central water and/or sanitary sewer facilities
and where the underground water supply or the soil conditions for septic tanks
are inadequate to accommodate a higher density.
   (C)   R-2 Residential District. The purpose of the R-2 Residential District
is to accommodate single-family and two-family residential dwellings in areas
that may reasonably be expected to be provided with central sewer and water
facilities. The stipulated densities are intended to maintain the suburban
character of the community.
   (D)   R-3 High Density Residential District. The purpose of the R-3 High
Density Residential District is to encourage apartment development of densities
of up to ten dwelling units per acre. The regulations are intended to restrict
the overcrowding of land and to encourage the provision of amenities of urban
living in areas offering unique regional transportation, recreational and/or
scenic advantages, and in areas where centralized water and sewerage facilities
exist or can be provided as projects are developed. Manufactured, modular and
mobile homes, and mobile home parks or subdivisions are not included within the
definition of apartment developments and are not permitted within any village
district absent Planning Commission’s approval as provided for in §
152.087(DD).
   (E)   B-1 Downtown Canal District. The purpose of the B-1 District is to
promote the mixed use development of the downtown canal area. The regulations
are intended to promote the mixed use by permitting residential, office,
retail, public uses, personal services or entertainment uses, designed, planned
and constructed as a unit. These developments will maintain the essential
historical character of the District.
   (F)   B-2 Warwick Business District. The purpose of the B-2 Warwick Business
District is to provide for mixed use development which principally accommodates
an urban feel, but at a lesser intensity. The regulations are set forth to
provide the mixed use development, at a lesser intensity, so to encourage the
desired character of the District.
   (G)   I-1 Industrial District. The purpose of the I-1 Industrial District is
to provide for and accommodate industrial uses in the fields of repair,
storage, manufacturing, processing, wholesaling and distribution, free from the
encroachment of residential, retail and institutional uses. The uses allowed
are those which because of their normally unobjectionable characteristics, can
be in relatively close proximity to residential and business districts.
(Prior Code, § 1121.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-23-12, passed
4-18-2023)
§ 152.086 PRINCIPALLY PERMITTED USES AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General use regulations.
      (1)   Number of principal buildings.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specifically stated, only one principal
building or use shall be permitted on any lot.
         (b)   Multiple principal buildings may be permitted in commercial and
industrial zoning districts if the lot is sufficient in size to conform to all
the use, area, height, parking and other requirements of this subchapter.
Multiple principal uses may also be permitted within a single principal
building within business districts.
      (2)   Required frontage.
         (a)   Every principal building and/or use shall be located on a lot
that meets the minimum lot widths along a public or private street, built to
the appropriate public street standards and specifications contained in the
county subdivision regulations.
         (b)   Issuance of a village zoning certificate authorizing the
construction of a principal building or use shall be done only if the proposed
building site or use is located on an existing street as specified above or on
a proposed public street contained on a recorded dedicated plat for which
financial guarantees for construction and maintenance have been accepted by the
Village Engineer.
         (c)   Evidence of such financial guarantees and recorded plat shall be
submitted to the Zoning Inspector prior to the issuance of said zoning
certificate.
      (3)   Enclosed building.
         (a)   Unless specifically stated in the use name, all principal uses
shall be required to take place in a fully enclosed building.
         (b)   Except as provided in §§
152.115 through
152.150.
      (4)   Prohibited activities.
         (a)   No activities shall be permitted or authorized to be established
which, when conducted in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, are
or may become hazardous, noxious or offensive due to the emission of odor,
light, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, electrical
interference, refuse matters or water-carried wastes including, but not limited
to, outdoor fire boilers.
         (b)   Any action to abate a nuisance shall be administered by the
Village Council or Zoning Inspector in accordance with applicable laws.
   (B)   Operations for which effects on adjacent premises are not readily
known. In the interests of the community, the Zoning Inspector shall, in regard
to a use whose effects on adjacent premises are not readily known, refrain from
issuing a zoning certificate and shall refer the request to the Planning
Commission for an interpretation of whether or not the use is a permitted use
under the requirements of this section. The Planning Commission may seek expert
advice on what conditions should be imposed on the particular industrial
operation to reasonably modify any injurious or offensive effects likely to
result from such an operation. The cost of securing such expert assistance
shall be borne by the applicant.
   (C)   Permitted use table summary. The permitted use table sets forth below
the uses allowed within the zoning districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed by right in the
respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   Permitted uses are approved by the Zoning Inspector through the
zoning certificate procedure.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   A “C” in a cell indicates that a use may be permitted if
approved through the conditional use review (see §
152.055). Conditional uses may be subject to use specific standards as
identified in the last column of the permitted uses table. Conditional uses are
subject to all other applicable regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   The existence of additional use specific standards in this
subchapter shall not be implied to be the only standards the use is required to
meet. All uses that are permitted as a conditional use shall be subject to the
general review standards for conditional uses in §
152.055.
      (3)   Permitted uses with standards.
         (a)   A “PS” in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed by
right in the respective zoning district if it meets the additional standards
set forth in the numerically referenced sections. Permitted uses with standards
are subject to all other applicable regulations of this subchapter.
         (b)   Uses permitted with standards under this category are approved
by the Zoning Inspector through the zoning certificate procedure (see §
152.055).
      (4)   Prohibited uses. A blank and/or shaded cell indicates that a use is
prohibited in the respective zoning district.
      (5)   Numerical references. The numbers contained in the “use specific
standards” column are references to additional standards and requirements that
apply to the use type listed. Standards referenced in the “use specific
standards” column apply in all zoning districts unless otherwise expressly
stated.
      (6)   Unlisted uses. If an application is submitted for a use that the
Zoning Inspector determines is not defined or established in the permitted use
table, the applicant may choose to take one of the following actions.
         (a)   The applicant may appeal the determination of the Zoning
Inspector to the BZA pursuant to §
152.057.
         (b)   The applicant may submit an application for a zoning text
amendment to include the proposed use and applicable standards pursuant §
152.054.
         (c)   The applicant may present their case to the Planning Commission
and/or Village Council to request that the village initiate a text amendment to
address the proposed use and applicable standards.
      (7)   Riparian setback development. The requirements for the riparian
setback (see §§
152.190 through
152.198), when applicable, may alter how a use may be permitted or reviewed, or
may prohibit a use that is otherwise permitted in the applicable zoning
district.
   (D)   Permitted use table.
Permitted Use Table
                                                                Zoning Districts
Permitted Uses
P   =   Permitted use                                        R- R- R- B- B- I- Use Specific
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards CD 1  2  3  1  2  1  Standards, See §
C   =   Conditional use
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited
Permitted Use Table
                                                                           Zoning Districts
Permitted Uses
P   =   Permitted use                                                   R- R- R- B- B- I- Use Specific
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards            CD 1  2  3  1  2  1  Standards, See §
C   =   Conditional use
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited
Agricultural uses                                                                         
   Agricultural uses                                                    P  PS PS         152.087(A)
Commercial and offices uses                                                               
   Banks, drive-in banking facilities and financial institutions                C  PS    
   Bed and breakfast establishments                                     C  C  C  C  C  C    152.087(M)
   Car wash                                                                       C    152.087(N)
   Child day care centers                                               C  C  C    P  P    152.087(P)
   Commercial entertainment or recreation uses (indoors)                        C  C    152.087(O)
   Deli, meat market and dairy store                                            C  P     
   Drive-in refreshment stand                                                   C  C    152.087(Q)
   Gasoline stations (fueling only)                                               C    152.087(R)
   General offices (administrative, professional or business)                   P  P     
   Hotels                                                                       C  C    152.087(T)
   Medical and dental offices                                                   C  P     
   Mini-storage facility                                                          P     
   Mixed use buildings                                                          C  C    152.087(S)
   Personal service establishments                                              C  P     
   Private recreational uses (outdoors)                                           C    152.087(U)
   Restaurants and taverns                                                      P  P    152.087(V)
   Retail                                                                       C  P    152.087(W)
   Sexually oriented businesses                                                       152.087(X)
   Strip or open pit mining, soil removal or extracting operations      C            C  152.087(Y)
   Veterinarian offices (no boarding)                                               PS 152.087(BB)
Industrial uses                                                                           
   Blacksmith, welding or other metal working shops including machine sh            PS 152.087(BB)
operations of tool, die and gauge types
   Building materials, sales yard and lumber yard, contractor’s equipm t          PS 152.087(CC)
storage yard, or storage of rental equipment
   Carpenter, cabinet, upholstering, sheet metal, plumbing, heating,                PS 152.087(BB)
roofing, air conditioning, painting and other similar establishments
   Foundry, casting, lightweight non-ferrous metals                                 PS 152.087(BB)
   Fuel, food and goods distribution station, warehouse and storage                 PS 152.087(BB)
   Machinery, equipment and automobile repair                                       PS 152.087(CC)
   Manufacturing, processing, cleaning, servicing or laboratory faciliti            PS 152.087(Z)
   Motor, freight garage, truck or transfer terminal, office, warehousin            PS 152.087(CC)
and storage
   Oil, gas or brine wells, drilling and operations necessary for their             C  152.087(AA)
extraction, storage and skimming
   Plant greenhouse                                                                 P   
   Warehousing and wholesale establishments                                         P   
Public and institutional uses                                                             
   Airports, airfields and landing strips                               C  C            152.087(C)
   Cemeteries                                                           C  C  C    C      152.087(D)
   Churches and places of worship                                       C  C  C  C  C  C    152.087(E)
   Educational institutions (public or private)                           C  C  C  C      152.087(F)
   Government offices and buildings                                     C  C  C    C  C  C  152.087(G)
   Governmental utilities                                               P  P  P  P  C  P  P   
   Institutions for higher education                                        C  C  C      152.087(I)
   Institutions for human medical care                                      C  C  C      152.087(H)
   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses (except miniature), swimming
facilities, tennis clubs, country clubs, riding academies and other        C  C  C  C  C      152.087(J)
similar uses
   Quasi-public, fraternal or service facilities                            C  C  C      152.087(K)
   Recreational areas and campgrounds                                   C  C            152.087(L)
   Wildlife refuge and game preserve                                    P               
Residential uses                                                                          
   Manufactured homes                                                     C  C  C        152.087(DD)
   Mobile homes                                                                       152.087(DD)
   Mobile, manufactured or modular home parks and subdivisions                        152.087(DD)
   Modular homes                                                          C  C  C        152.087(DD)
   Multi-family dwellings of the townhouse, rowhouse, garden apartment o      C  C  C    152.087(B)
multi-story type
   Single-family dwellings; on lots of record                           P  P  P  P  P  P     
   Two-family residential dwellings                                         P  P  P  P     
 
(Prior Code, § 1121.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-23-12, passed
4-18-2023) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.087 USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Agricultural uses.
      (1)   The following standard applies to all districts: gardens are
permitted on any lot by-right.
      (2)   The following standards apply to agricultural uses in the R-
1 District.
         (a)   All buildings and structures, except fencing, used to house farm
animals should be located no less than 75 feet from all lot lines.
         (b)   Fencing utilized to corral or pen livestock shall be set back no
less than 20 feet from all lot lines.
         (c)   Livestock or poultry raising or breeding for commercial purposes
shall only be permitted on lots of five acres or more. For this section, the
selling of eggs produced on premises shall not be considered a commercial
purpose.
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings of the townhouse, rowhouse, garden apartment or
multi-story type. The following standards apply to multi-family dwellings of
the townhouse, rowhouse, garden apartment or multi-story type when reviewed as
a conditional use.
      (1)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (2)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (3)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (4)   Special provisions for group dwellings:
         (a)   Group dwelling shall be considered as one building for the
purpose of determining front, side and rear yard requirements, the entire group
as a unit requiring one front and rear and two side yards as specified for
dwellings in the appropriate district;
         (b)   Each two or two and one-half story group dwelling development
shall have a minimum court of 40 feet in width and 40 feet in length, in
addition to its required yards, and each one story group dwelling development
shall have a minimum court of 30 feet in width and 30 feet in length, in
addition to its required yards;
         (c)   In a group dwelling development, no two separate dwelling
structures shall be closer to each other along the sides or end of a court than
15 feet;
         (d)   The court shall be unoccupied by any building or other
structures, except fire hydrants, utility poles or other street improvements;
         (e)   The court shall have an unobstructed opening, not less than 30
feet wide, onto the front yard of a lot which has a width not less than that
required in the district in which it is located; and
         (f)   All dwelling structures of the group except those facing a
public street shall face upon the court.
      (5)   The proposed project shall conform to all requirements and/or
conditions as the Planning Commission may deem necessary to meet the following
criteria.
         (a)   Vehicular approach to the property shall be so designed as not
to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public streets or roads.
         (b)   Maximum possible privacy for each apartment shall be provided
through good design and use of proper building materials and landscaping.
Visual privacy should be provided through structural screening and landscaping
treatment. Auditory privacy should be provided through soundproofing.
         (c)   The architectural design of apartment buildings should be
developed with consideration given to the relationship of adjacent development
in terms of building height, mass, texture, line and pattern, and character.
         (d)   Building location and placement should be developed with
consideration given to minimizing removal of trees and change of topography.
         (e)   Television antenna and satellite dishes shall be centralized.
         (f)   On-site circulation shall be designed to make possible adequate
fire and police protection.
         (g)   In large parking areas, visual relief shall be provided through
the use of tree planted and landscaped dividers, islands and walkways. No
parking or service areas shall be permitted between any street and the main
building.
         (h)   Paved off-street parking and service areas shall be required;
parking spaces shall contain at least 200 square feet and shall be provided at
the rate of two spaces per dwelling unit in each apartment building; all
parking and service areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt or equivalent,
and shall be located no closer than 20 feet from any residential structure.
Paved vehicle access drives of at least ten vehicles or less capacity, and two-
way drives of 20 feet paving width minimum shall be required for parking areas
of 11 or more vehicle capacity.
         (i)   The property must be served by centralized sewer approved by the
State and County Health Department and operated and maintained according to the
inspection and rules of the County Health Department and County Sanitary
Engineer’s regulations.
      (6)   (a)   No zoning certificate shall be issued until final site plans
have been submitted and approved by the Planning Commission. Said site plans
shall show the following: drainage (including stormwater), location of all
buildings, fuel tanks (if any), off-street parking and service facilities,
water supply, sanitation, walks, fences, walls, landscaping, outside lighting,
traffic flow and its relation to abutting streets.
         (b)   No zoning certificate shall be issued until the approval by the
State and County Health Departments has been obtained concerning the proposed
sanitary sewage facilities.
      (7)   The design and construction of all access drives, access points to
public streets, and parking and service areas shall be approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (8)   A performance bond or other financial acceptable to the Planning
Commission shall be placed with the Commission to ensure that the landscaping
be installed, that the hard surfacing of the access drives and parking and
service areas be installed, and that adequate stormwater drainage be installed,
all in accordance with the Planning Commission’s approved plans.
   (C)   Airports, airfields and landing strips.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
      (3)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (4)   Such uses should be located on a major thoroughfare, adjacent to
non-residential uses such as commerce, industry or recreation, or adjacent to
sparsely settled residential uses.
   (D)   Cemeteries. The following standards shall apply to cemeteries.
      (1)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (2)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (3)   The area proposed for a cemetery shall be used for cemetery
purposes only, and shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Only Memorial Park cemeteries having grave markers flush with
the surface of the ground shall be permitted. The term marker to refer to name
of deceased;
         (b)   Except for office uses incidental to cemetery operations, no
business or commercial uses of any kind shall be permitted on the cemetery
site;
         (c)   Minimum area required for a cemetery site to be 40 acres;
         (d)   A building of brick and/or stone, solid and/or veneered, shall
be provided if storage of maintenance equipment and/or materials is to be
necessary;
         (e)   Pavement width of driveways shall be at least 20 feet (ten feet
per moving lane);
         (f)   Drives shall be of useable shape, improved with bituminous,
concrete or equivalent surfacing and so graded and drained as to dispose of all
surface water accumulation within area;
         (g)   Pavement is to be installed as development progresses and as
indicated on the final plans approved by the Planning Commission;
         (h)   Sufficient parking space shall be provided as to not deter
traffic flow within the cemetery;
         (i)   Area drainage and/or sanitary facilities are subject to rules
promulgated by the county;
         (j)   Only signs designating entrances, exits, traffic direction and
titles shall be permitted, and must be approved by the Planning Commission;
         (k)   Adequate screening with shrubs, trees or compact hedge shall be
provided parallel to property lines adjacent to or abutting residential
dwelling. Such shrubs, trees and hedges shall not be less than two feet in
height and must be maintained in good condition;
         (l)   Provisions shall be made for landscaping throughout the
cemetery;
         (m)   Location of cemetery buildings and all other structures shall
conform to front, side and rear yard building lines of the particular district
in which it is located;
         (n)   No grave sites shall be located within 100 feet of the right-of-
way lines of any publicly dedicated thoroughfare;
         (o)   A grave site shall not be within 200 feet of an existing
residence unless the owner of such residence gives his or her written consent;
         (p)   Guarantees shall be made that the cemetery will be developed as
proposed on the plans approved by the Planning Commission, the County Engineer
and the County Board of Health. Guarantees shall be in a form approved by the
Planning Commission and may be one of the following:
            1.   A performance bond is required in the amount specified in the
village bond and insurance fee schedule; or
            2.   Other methods as might be worked out by the Planning
Commission, Council, developers and their legal advisors.
         (q)   A trust fund of an amount set by the Planning Commission shall
be established by the cemetery developers for the perpetual maintenance of the
cemetery grounds. Said trust fund shall be established before any burial spaces
are sold or used and shall be held and invested by a financial institution
mutually agreed upon by the developers and the Council. A percentage of the
money from the sale of each burial space shall be put into the maintenance
trust fund. The percentage shall be an amount set by the Planning Commission.
Interest yielded by the fund shall be applied toward the maintenance of the
cemetery grounds.
   (E)   Churches and places of worship.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to churches and places of
worship in all districts where conditionally allowed.
         (a)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
         (b)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than
200 feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than
100 feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
         (c)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
         (d)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to churches and places of
worship in the districts: CD, R-1, R-2, B-1 and B-2.
         (a)   Such structures should be located adjacent to parks and other
non-residential uses such as schools and shopping facilities where use could be
made of joint parking facilities.
         (b)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat,
orderly condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any
individual or to the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure
that this provision will be met.
      (3)   The following standard shall apply to churches and places of
worship in the R-3 District: such developments should be located adjacent to
non-residential uses such as churches, parks or business districts.
   (F)   Educational institutions (public or private). The following standards
shall apply to educational institutions.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (4)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Elementary school structures should be located on a collector
thoroughfare.
      (6)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (7)   Such uses shall incorporate a landscaping buffer in accordance with
§
152.245.
   (G)   Government offices and buildings.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to government offices and
buildings in all districts where conditionally allowed.
         (a)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than
200 feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than
100 feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
         (b)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
         (c)   Such developments should be located adjacent to non-residential
uses such as churches, parks or business districts.
         (d)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to government offices and
buildings in the B-1 District.
         (a)   Such uses shall be permitted under the following conditions:
            1.   Provided that such facilities be located at the extremity of
business districts so as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange
between stores in the district and provided further, that it would not limit
expansion of the pedestrian-oriented facilities;
            2.   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted
directly from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the
property line;
            3.   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways
shall be located as far from the street intersections as is practical; and
            4.   At least a six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be
installed along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches.
         (b)   All activities, except those required to be performed at fuel
pumps, shall be carried on inside a building; if work is performed on a
vehicle, said vehicle shall be entirely within a building.
   (H)   Institutions for human medical care. The following standards shall
apply to institutions for human medical care.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (4)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (6)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (7)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (8)   Such uses shall incorporate a landscaping buffer in accordance with
§
152.245.
      (9)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (10)   Ambulances and other vehicles used in the operation of the
principal use shall be stored in an enclosed building.
   (I)   Institutions for higher education. The following standards shall apply
to institutions for higher education.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
      (5)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (6)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (7)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
   (J)   Parks, playgrounds and golf courses (except miniature), swimming
facilities, tennis clubs, country clubs, riding academies and other similar
uses.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
      (5)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (6)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (7)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual, or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (8)   Only retail uses which are customarily accessory or incidental to
the main recreational use shall be permitted; and shall include such uses as
refreshment stands, souvenir stands and concession stands.
      (9)   A conditional zoning certificate for a use permitted under these
regulations shall be issued for a three-year period only. After a three-year
period has elapsed, a new conditional zoning certificate shall be required and
may be issued; provided that the Planning Commission and the Zoning Inspector
determine that the said use has been and is being operated according to the
specifications of the Zoning Code and the previous conditional zoning
certificate. If necessary, the Commission may make additional requirements for
the continued operation of the use as a prerequisite for reissuance of the
conditional zoning certificate.
      (10)   All facilities and structures shall meet all state and/or local
health, building, electrical and other applicable codes.
      (11)   All activities, programs and other events shall be adequately and
properly supervised so as to prevent any hazard and to assure against any
disturbance or nuisance to surrounding properties, residents or to the
community in general.
      (12)   C-R, CD and R-1 shall also follow such uses should be properly
landscaped to be harmonious with surrounding residential uses.
   (K)   Quasi-public, fraternal or service facilities. The following standards
shall apply to quasi-public, fraternal or service facilities.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas shall be set back a minimum of
100 feet from all lot lines and street rights-of-way.
      (2)   All vehicular entrances or exits shall be set back a minimum of 200
feet from the intersection of any streets under county or state authority.
      (3)   Such uses shall incorporate a landscaping buffer in accordance with
§
152.245.
      (4)   Such establishments shall be located on collector thoroughfares or
at intersections of arterial and/or collector streets.
   (L)   Recreational areas and campgrounds. The following standards shall
apply to recreational areas and campgrounds.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
      (4)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (6)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (7)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (8)   A conditional zoning certificate for a use permitted under these
regulations shall be issued for a three-year period only. After a three-year
period has elapsed, a new conditional zoning certificate shall be required and
may be issued; provided that the Planning Commission and the Zoning Inspector
determine that the said use has been and is being operated according to the
specifications of the Zoning Code and the previous conditional zoning
certificate. If necessary, the Commission may make additional requirements for
the continued operation of the use as a prerequisite for reissuance of the
conditional zoning certificate.
      (9)   No campsite shall be occupied by the same occupant or group and/or
tent, trailer or other camping equipment for a period longer than 14
consecutive days. No cabin, lodge, room or other rental accommodations shall be
occupied by the same occupant or group for a period longer than 30 consecutive
days.
      (10)   Only retail uses which are customarily accessory or incidental to
the main recreational use shall be permitted as part of the park, recreational
area or campground. Included as such retail uses are refreshment stands,
souvenir stands, concession stands, park office and the limited sale of
groceries when the customers are primarily the campers using the park.
      (11)   A minimum area of 50 acres shall be required for a use proposed
under these regulations.
      (12)   All facilities and structures shall meet all county and/or state
health, building, electrical and other applicable codes.
      (13)   All activities, programs and other events shall be adequately and
properly supervised so as to prevent any hazard and to assure against any
disturbance or nuisance to surrounding properties, residents or to the
community in general.
   (M)   Bed and breakfast establishments. The following shall apply to bed and
breakfast establishments.
      (1)   The principal building shall have been originally designed as a
single-family dwelling.
      (2)   The owner, operator or manager of the premises used for the bed and
breakfast establishment shall reside full-time in the dwelling, or in a
dwelling on an adjoining lot.
      (3)   No more than four bedrooms in any dwelling may be used for bed and
breakfast lodging.
      (4)   At least one bathroom shall be dedicated to guest use.
      (5)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each two
bedrooms used for guest lodging in addition to those normally required for the
single-family dwelling.
      (6)   (a)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the bed and
breakfast establishment that will indicate from the exterior that the building
is being utilized in part for any purpose other than a dwelling unit.
         (b)   In a residential district, a bed and breakfast establishment may
have one ground monument sign that does not exceed 12 feet in sign area and
shall not exceed four feet in height. The sign shall be subject to the same
general sign standards as all other signs in residential districts as
established in §§
152.295 through
152.306.
      (7)   Meals provided for cost in a bed and breakfast establishment shall
only be served to the guests who are lodging at the bed and breakfast
establishment.
      (8)   Guests shall be permitted to reside at the facility for not longer
than two continuous weeks.
   (N)   Car wash. Any approved car wash shall adhere to state health and EPA
codes and regulations.
   (O)   Commercial entertainment or recreation uses (indoors). The following
standards shall apply when commercial entertainment or recreational uses
(indoors) is a conditional use.
      (1)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (3)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual, or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (4)   Such uses shall be permitted under the following conditions:
         (a)   Provided that such facilities be located at the extremity of
business districts so as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange
between stores in the district and provided further, that it would not limit
expansion of the pedestrian-oriented facilities;
         (b)   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted directly
from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the property
line;
         (c)   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways
shall be located as far from the street intersections as is practical; and
         (d)   At least a six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be
installed along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches.
      (5)   All activities related to the use, except parking, shall be located
within an enclosed building.
      (6)   All structures shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from all lot
lines and street rights-of-way.
      (7)   All vehicular entrances or exits shall be set back a minimum of 200
feet from the intersection of any streets under county or state authority.
      (8)   Such uses shall incorporate a landscaping buffer in accordance with
§
152.245.
      (9)   Such establishments shall be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of arterial and/or collector streets.
   (P)   Child day care center. The following standards apply to child day care
centers when reviewed as a conditional use.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit would be located no closer than 200
feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer than 100
feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or collector
thoroughfare.
      (4)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (6)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (7)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (8)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
   (Q)   Drive-in refreshment stand.
      (1)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (3)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (4)   Such uses shall be permitted under the following conditions:
         (a)   Provided that such facilities be located at the extremity of
business districts so as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange
between stores in the district; and provided further, that it would not limit
expansion of the pedestrian-oriented facilities;
         (b)   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted directly
from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the property
line;
         (c)   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways
shall be located as far from the street intersections as is practical; or
         (d)   At least a six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be
installed along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches.
   (R)   Gasoline stations (fueling only).
      (1)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (2)   Such developments should be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (3)   Such uses shall be permitted under the following conditions:
         (a)   Provided that such facilities be located at the extremity of
business districts so as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange
between stores in the district; and provided further, that it would not limit
expansion of the pedestrian-oriented facilities;
         (b)   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted directly
from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the property
line;
         (c)   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways
shall be located as far from the street intersections as is practical; or
         (d)   At least a six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be
installed along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches.
      (4)   All activities, except those required to be performed at fuel
pumps, shall be carried on inside a building; if work is performed on a
vehicle, said vehicle shall be entirely within a building.
      (5)   Outdoor storage and display shall be regulated by §
152.210.
   (S)   Mixed use buildings. The following standards shall apply to mixed use
buildings.
      (1)   Residential apartments shall only be permitted on the second or
higher floor of a mixed use building.
      (2)   Areas for the collection and storage of refuse and recyclable
materials shall be located on the site in locations that are convenient for
both the residential and non-residential uses.
      (3)   A mixed use project proposing a commercial component that will
operate outside of the hours from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. shall require a
conditional use approval to ensure that the commercial uses will not negatively
impact the residential uses within the building or on adjacent properties.
   (T)   Hotels. The following standards apply to hotels when reviewed as a
conditional use:
      (1)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties;
      (2)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community;
      (3)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met;
      (4)   Such development should be located within three-quarters of a mile
of a state highways;
      (5)   Such facilities shall be located at the extremity of districts so
as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange between stores in the
district and provided further, that it would not limit expansion of the
pedestrian-oriented facilities;
      (6)   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted directly
from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the property
line;
      (7)   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways shall
be located as far from the street intersections as is practical; and
      (8)   At least a six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be installed
along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches.
   (U)   Private recreational uses (outdoors).
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (4)   Any outdoor areas utilized for the use shall only be located in the
side and rear yard and shall be set back a minimum of 200 feet from all lot
lines and street rights-of-way.
      (5)   Outdoor entertainment activities such as concerts, rallies or
similar activities, are prohibited.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may require portions of the site with high
activity areas to be enclosed by a fence having a minimum height of six feet.
      (7)   Swimming pools shall be subject to the accessory use standards
related to swimming pools. See §
152.210.
   (V)   Restaurants and taverns. The following standards shall apply to
restaurants and taverns.
      (1)   Any outdoor dining shall be subject to the applicable provisions of
§
152.210.
      (2)   Any proposed drive-through facility must be approved as part of a
conditional use (see §
152.055).
      (3)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
   (W)   Retail. Where retail is a conditional use the following standards
apply.
      (1)   No more than 1,500 square feet of floor area in a dwelling shall be
used for such purposes and no noticeable odors, smoke, noise, dust, refuse,
electromagnetic interference or other objectionable conditions shall be created
outside the structure.
      (2)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
      (4)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extensions of utility
services at the expense of the community.
      (6)   Such uses should be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
      (7)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (8)   A conditional zoning certificate for a use permitted under these
regulations shall be issued for a three-year period only. After a three-year
period has elapsed, a new conditional zoning certificate shall be required and
may be issued; provided that the Planning Commission and the Zoning Inspector
determine that the said use has been and is being operated according to the
specifications of the Zoning Code and the previous conditional zoning
certificate. If necessary, the Commission may make additional requirements for
the continued operation of the use as a prerequisite for reissuance of the
conditional zoning certificate.
   (X)   Sexually oriented businesses. The following standards shall apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
      (1)   Required setbacks:
         (a)   No sexually oriented business shall be located on any parcel
within 500 feet of any residentially zoned district within the village;
         (b)   No such business shall be located on any parcel within 1,000
feet of any public library, private or public elementary or secondary school,
public park, church or other place of worship; and
         (c)   No such business shall be located on any parcel within 1,000
feet of another sexually oriented business.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (X)(1) above, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the
premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest lot
line of the premises of a public library, church or other place of worship, or
public or private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of
an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.
      (3)   For the purposes of division (X)(1) above, the distance between any
two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the use.
      (5)   No person shall establish, or operate, or cause the establishment
or operation of any sexually oriented business in violation of the provisions
of this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or
limit the display, sale or rental of descriptive, printed, film or video
material or any live performance which, taken as a whole, contains serious
literary, artistic, political, medical, educational or scientific value.
      (6)   Once approved and established, a sexually oriented business will
not be made non-conforming as a result of the establishment of an activity set
out in division (X)(1) above within the buffer zone.
   (Y)   Strip or open pit mining, soil removal or extracting operations.
      (1)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way impair
safe movement of traffic on any street or highway; no lighting shall shine
directly on adjacent properties.
      (2)   (a)   Shall be enclosed by a fence six feet or more in height for
the entire periphery of the development. Fences shall be adequate to prevent
trespass and shall be placed no closer than 50 feet to the top or bottom of any
slope. No sand or gravel shall be removed or stored or overburden stored within
100 feet of any lot line not owned or controlled by the developer or operator
of said business or his or her agent, nor shall such mineral extraction
business be conducted closer to any lot line or street so that areas contiguous
and adjacent thereto do not have adequate lateral support.
         (b)   All work conducted in connection with such operations shall be
done between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
      (3)   No rehabilitated slope shall exceed an angle with the horizontal of
45 degrees.
      (4)   (a)   All areas within any single development shall be
rehabilitated progressively as they are worked out or abandoned to a condition
of being entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous and blended with the
general surrounding ground form so as to appear reasonably natural. Areas shall
be completely and continually drained of water when not in use or not
supervised by a watchperson. All slopes and banks shall be reasonably graded
and treated to prevent erosion or any other potential deterioration.
         (b)   Such operations shall be conducted so as not to leave or cause
to exist spoil banks.
      (5)   Truck routes shall be established for movement in and out of the
development in such a way that it will minimize the wear on public streets and
prevent hazards and damage to other properties in the community.
      (6)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (7)   To guarantee the restoration, rehabilitation and reclamation of
mined-out areas, every applicant granted a mining permit as herein provided,
shall furnish a performance bond of $25,000 per acre with a minimum bond of
$25,000 village as a guarantee that such work will be done in a satisfactory
manner. Plans and specifications of proposed restoration shall be approved by
the Village Council prior to the issuance of the permit.
   (Z)   Manufacturing, processing, cleaning, servicing or laboratory
facilities.
      (1)   Manufacturing, processing, cleaning, servicing and laboratory
facilities so long as the use does not create a nuisance for occupants of
adjacent premises or the community at large by reason of the emission or
creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particular matter, toxic and
noxious materials, odors, fire or explosive hazards, glare or heat, or
electromagnetic disturbances.
      (2)   Laboratories shall not use equipment or conduct experiments which
would create hazards, noxious or offensive conditions.
      (3)   In the interests of the community and other industries within the
district, the Zoning Inspector shall in regard to an industrial operation whose
effects on adjacent premises are not readily known, refrain from issuing a
zoning certificate and shall refer the request to the Planning Commission for
an interpretation of whether or not the industrial use is permitted use under
the requirements of this section. The Commission may seek expert advice on what
conditions should be imposed on the particular industrial operation to
reasonably modify any injurious or offensive effects likely to result from such
an operation. The cost of securing such expert assistance shall be borne by the
applicant.
   (AA)   Oil, gas or brine wells, drilling and operations necessary for their
extraction, storage and skimming.
      (1)   All structures and activity areas should be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
      (2)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to ensure that this provision
will be met.
      (3)   The area of use shall be completely enclosed by a six-foot (open or
closed) and appropriately landscaped to be harmonious with surrounding
properties.
   (BB)   Minimum distance required from residential districts. The designated
uses shall not be conducted closer than within 100 feet of any residential
district. Where the industrial district abuts upon but is separated from any
residential district by a street, the width of the street may be considered as
part of the required setback.
   (CC)   Enclosure requirements. The following uses, provided storage is
within an enclosed building or an area enclosed on all sides by a solid masonry
wall or a minimum six-foot solid painted fence with openings no greater than
15%.
   (DD)   Manufactured, mobile and modular homes.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (DD), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that is built completely or partially
off-site, which may or may not comply with either local or state building
codes. This type of structure will bear a label certifying that it is built in
compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., established and
administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), for
manufactured homes, which became effective on June 15, 1976.
         MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built, single-family structure
designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling.
         MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership on which two
or more mobile homes are occupied as residences, and meeting the requirements
of this section.
         MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended primarily
for the sale of lots for residential occupancy by mobile homes.
         MODULAR HOME. A structure that is built completely or partially off-
site which may or may not comply with either local or state building codes.
This type of structure will bear a label certifying that it is built in
compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction Safety Standards
Act of 1974, established and administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD), for manufactured homes, which became effective on June
15, 1976.
         MODULAR HOME SITE ZONE or MOBILE HOME SITE ZONE. A subdivision created
by the Planning Commission, if desired, wherein mobile homes, modular homes,
manufactured homes, mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions are a
permitted use.
      (2)   Mobile homes, mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions shall
only be permitted in mobile or modular home site zones in the village.
      (3)   The Planning Commission for the village is hereby authorized, if it
should so desire, to establish a new zone within the village to be known as the
Mobile or Modular Home Site Zone in which modular, manufactured and mobile
homes can be designated a permitted use.
      (4)   Modular homes and manufactured homes shall be a permitted use in
the Mobile or Modular Home Site Zone, if created.
      (5)   No modular homes or manufactured homes shall be located in the
village in any district for any purpose other than as provided for herein.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may permit a manufactured home or modular
home of two or more sections to be located:
         (a)   In a residential district, if the Planning Commission finds
that:
            1.   The manufactured home or modular home shall be lawfully
situated and permanently sited on the lot, and such lot shall be landscaped in
accordance with §§
152.240 through
152.248;
            2.   The location of the manufactured home or modular home on the
proposed lot shall not cause harm or injury to the surrounding property owners
or detract from the village’s character; and
            3.   The manufactured or modular home complies with all
requirements for buildings in a residential district.
         (b)   The Planning Commission’s denial of an application for permit to
place a manufactured or modular home in a residential district shall be
appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with §
152.057.
      (7)   Lot size permitting, no more than a total of two accessory
buildings shall be permitted on any lot containing a manufactured home or
modular home.
         (a)   Yard barn. There shall be permitted on any property within the
village one accessory building of the yard barn type. A yard barn, although
distinct from an unattached garage or a secondary dwelling unit, shall likewise
comply with all sideline and setback requirements of the district in which the
yard barn is placed. A yard barn may not exceed 240 square feet in area without
a conditional use permit.
         (b)   Unattached garage. There shall be permitted on any property
within the village one accessory building of the unattached garage type. Such a
building, although distinct from a yard barn or secondary dwelling unit, shall
likewise comply with all sideline and setback requirements of the district in
which the unattached garage is placed. An accessory building of the unattached
garage type may not exceed 600 square feet in area.
      (8)   Manufactured and modular homes approved for placement by the
Planning Commission must be state inspected and approved. They must conform to
this Building Code, including the building codes adopted by reference in §§
150.001 through
150.009,
150.020 through
150.026. All requests for building permits must be accompanied by
specifications. If such specifications conform to this Building Code, as
aforesaid, they may be approved without visual inspection of the plumbing and
electrical work. All electrical connections must be in junction boxes.
      (9)   Any mobile, manufactured or modular home that existed prior to the
enactment of this chapter is permitted to remain as long as the unit is in its
present location. If the unit is removed, a replacement unit will not be
allowed absent the Planning Commission authorizing the replacement.
      (10)   In accordance with §
152.211, a mobile, modular or manufactured home may be used in any district, on
a temporary basis, when the mobile home is used by a construction contractor in
conjunction with a construction project; and provided that the mobile home
shall be removed within 30 days after a certificate of occupancy for the
construction has been issued.
      (11)   Persons wishing a variance from the provisions of this chapter may
apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals for such variance. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall have the authority to grant such variances. Appeals of the
Board’s decisions regarding variances shall be made to the Village Council. A
two-thirds majority vote by the Council is required for a reversal of a
decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (12)   Mobile, modular or manufactured homes shall not be permitted,
placed or parked in areas zoned for or used as a recreational area or
campground as defined in division (L) above.
(Prior Code, § 1121.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-23-12, passed
4-18-2023) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Measurements, computations and exceptions.
      (1)   General rules of measurement.
         (a)   Percentages and fractions. When a calculation required by this
chapter results in a fractional number or percentage, the resulting number
shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
         (b)   Distance measurements. Unless otherwise expressly stated,
distances specified in this subchapter are to be measured as the length of an
imaginary straight line joining those points.
         (c)   Lots, yards and open spaces. No space which, for the purpose of
a building, has been counted or calculated as part of a side yard, front yard
or other open space required by this subchapter may, by reason of change in
ownership or otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy the yard or other
open space requirements of or for any other building.
      (2)   Lot area measurements.
         (a)   The area of a lot includes the total horizontal surface area
within the lot’s boundaries, excluding any area of street right-of-way.
         (b)   For non-conforming lots, see §
152.325.
         (c)   With the exception of approval of an open space residential
subdivision or governmental acquisition of land, no lot shall be reduced in
area so that the lot area per dwelling unit, lot width, yards, building area or
other requirements of this subchapter are not met.
      (3)   Setback and yard measurements.
         (a)   Setback measurements and permitted projections. Setbacks refer
to the unobstructed, unoccupied open area between the furthermost projection of
a principal structure and the lot line of the lot on which the structure is
located. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and
unobstructed except:
            1.   As otherwise provided in this section;
            2.   For temporary and accessory buildings as allowed in §§
152.210 and
152.211;
            3.   Fences and walls as permitted in §
152.225;
            4.   For the ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt
courses, cornices and ornamental features projecting into the yard a distance
not to exceed 12 inches;
            5.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside
stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not
more than five feet;
            6.   The ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may be
permitted by the County Building Department when placed so as not to obstruct
light and ventilation but shall not be any closer than two feet to any lot
line;
            7.   An open and unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into
the front yard for a distance not to exceed ten feet; or
            8.   Awnings and canopies may extend into any required setback but
shall maintain a minimum setback of one foot from all lot lines.
         (b)   Front yard setback. Unless otherwise noted, the required minimum
front yard setback shall be measured from each street right-of-way or, where a
right-of-way is not identified, the lot line adjacent to the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
         (c)   Front yard modifications. Notwithstanding division (B) below, in
any residential district where the average depth of at least two existing front
yards on lots within 200 feet of the lot in question and within the same block
front is less or greater than the minimum front yard setback prescribed
elsewhere in this subchapter, the required front yard setback on such lot may
be modified. In such case, this shall not be less than the average depth of
said existing front yards on the two lots immediately adjoining, or, in the
case of a corner lot, the depth of the front yard on the lot immediately
adjoining.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
         (d)   Interior lots (side and rear yards).
            1.   The lot line located directly behind the rear of the structure
shall be the rear lot line and the rear yard setback shall be applied.
            2.   All other lot lines shall be considered the side lot line and
the side yard setback shall be applied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
         (e)   Corner lots.
            1.   On corner lots, the required minimum front yard setback shall
be provided from each street or section thereof.
            2.   The lot line that runs parallel with the rear façade of the
building shall be the rear lot line and the minimum rear yard setback shall be
applied from such lot line.
            3.   All other lot lines shall be a side lot line and the minimum
side yard setback shall be applied from such lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
         (f)   Double frontage lots.
            1.   Where a lot is considered a double frontage lot, the required
minimum front yard setback shall be provided on all lot lines that abut a
street.
            2.   The remaining lot lines not abutting a public road right-of-
way shall be considered as side yards and shall have the required minimum side
yard setback provided for each side lot line.
            3.   For the purposes of allowing accessory uses in a rear yard,
the front yard that is located to the rear of the house shall be considered the
rear yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
         (g)   Cul-de-sac or curved-street lot.
            1.   For a cul-de-sac lot (including lots with frontage on a
knuckle or eyebrow) or a lot abutting a curved street, the front-yard setback
shall follow the curve of the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
            2.   On a cul-de-sac roadway, knuckle or eyebrow, the required lot
width at the street right-of-way shall be required and measured at the right-
of-way on the curve of the cul-de-sac, knuckle or eyebrow.
         (h)   Flag lots.
            1.   Flag lots shall not be used to avoid the construction of a
street.
            2.   The flag pole portion of the lot shall have a minimum lot
width at the street right-of-way as required in the site development standards
for zoning districts table set forth below.
            3.   The minimum front yard setback requirement shall be measured
from the lot line that creates the rear lot line of the adjacent lot as
illustrated below.
            4.   The flag pole portion of the lot shall not be used for storage
nor shall any structures be permitted in such portion of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.jpg]
         (i)   Other lot types. For any type of irregular lot not addressed in
this section, the Zoning Inspector shall determine the location of the front,
side and rear yard taking into consideration the effect on adjoining
properties.
      (4)   Lot width measurements.
         (a)   The lot width at the street right-of-way is the distance between
the side lot lines measured at the point of the street right-of-way line or, if
no right-of-way exists, at the back of the curb/pavement, or at the back of any
public utility easement along the roadway, whichever is greater.
         (b)   The lot width at the building setback line is the distance
between the side lot lines measured along the front yard setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
      (5)   Height measurement and exceptions.
         (a)   Height measurement.
            1.   Where specified in stories, building height shall be measured
in number of complete stories above the finished grade for any elevation
fronting on a public street including attics, half-stories, mezzanines, at-
grade structured parking, but excluding features that are greater than one-half
story or completely below grade, such as basements, cellars, crawl spaces, sub-
basements and underground parking structures.
            2.   Where specified in feet, building height shall be measured as
the vertical distance from the average grade at the base of the structure to:
               a.   The highest point of a flat roof;
               b.   The deck line of a mansard roof; or
               c.   The mean height between the eaves and ridge on gable, hip
or gambrel roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.jpg]
         (b)   Exceptions to height limits. Height limitations stipulated in
this subchapter shall not apply:
            1.   To barns, silos or other agricultural buildings or structures
on farms (not located in an improved platted subdivision); to church spires,
belfries and domes, monuments, chimneys and smokestacks; provided such space is
not habitable;
            2.   To cupolas and parapet walls extending not more than three
feet above the maximum height of buildings permitted within the applicable
zoning district; or
            3.   To bulkheads, elevator penthouses, water tanks, monitor and
lookout towers; provided:
               a.   The height of any such structure shall not be greater than
the number equal to the height of the first story of the principal structure;
and
               b.   The total footprint of the structure shall not exceed 60%
of the footprint of the principal structure and shall have the same materials
as the principal structure unless an alternative material is approved by the
Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   Site development standards.
      (1)   The site development standards for the zoning districts table
establishes the minimum site development standards for zoning districts.
      (2)   The minimum site development standards established in the table set
forth below may be reduced or enlarged:
         (a)   By requirement of the County General Health District if an on-
site wastewater system (e.g., septic system) is required;
         (b)   In the use specific standards established in §
152.087; or
         (c)   As a condition of an approved conditional use or variance (see
§§
152.055 or
152.056).
Site Development Standards for Zoning Districts
                        Minimum           Minimum Setbacks
                        Lot      Minimum        Side          Maximum           Minimum
Dwelling/       Minimum Width at Lot      Front Yard   Rear   Building Maximum  Usable
Building  Sewer Lot     Building Frontage Yard  Each   Yard   Height   Lot      Open
Type            Area1   Setback  (Feet)   Feet  Side   (Feet) (Feet) 2 Coverage Space
                        Line                    (Feet)
                        (Feet)
Site Development Standards for Zoning Districts
                                 Minimum           Minimum Setbacks
                                 Lot      Minimum        Side          Maximum           Minimum
Dwelling/Building        Minimum Width at Lot      Front Yard   Rear   Building Maximum  Usable
Type               Sewer Lot     Building Frontage Yard  Each   Yard   Height   Lot      Open
                         Area1   Setback  (Feet)   Feet  Side   (Feet) (Feet) 2 Coverage Space
                                 Line                    (Feet)
                                 (Feet)
B-1 Downtown Canal District
   Residential-       10,000
commercial         Yes   square  –      50             10     25     60
                         feet
                         10,000                                                 30% of   25% of
   Single-familyYes   square  90       50             8      25     40       lot area lot
                         feet                                                            area
                         15,000
   Two-family   Yes   square  90       50             10     25     40
                         feet
B-2 Warwick Business District
                         15,000
   –          –   square  100      100            10     25     35       –      –
                         feet
CD Conservation District
   Single-family–   5 acres 200      60       100   25     50     35       –      –
I-1 Industrial District
   –          –   1/      100      100      505   255, 6 255, 6 507      –      –
                         2 acre
R-1 Rural Residential District
   Single-familyNo    2 acres 200      60       100   25     50     35       –      –
                         20,000
   Single-familyYes   square  100      60       5     15     50     35       –      –
                         feet
R-2 Residential District
   Single-familyNo    1 acre  120      50       60    15     50     351      –      –
                         15,000
   Single-familyYes   square  90       50       60    15     50     351      –      –
                         feet
   Two-family   No    2 acres 160      50       60    15     50     351      –      –
                         20,000
   Two-family   Yes   square  120      50       60    15     50     351      –      –
                         feet
R-3 High Density Residential District
                         4,000
   Multi-family –   square  150      50       452   102    352    100      1 to 2
                         feet3                                                  stories:
                         10,000                                                 25%
   Single-family–   square  80       50       452   102    352    100      3 to 5   20% of
                         feet                                                   stories: lot
                                                                                20%      area
                         15,000                                                 6+
   Two-family   –   square  100      50       452   102    352    100      stories:
                         feet                                                   18%4


Notes:
1   The maximum building height is given in feet but in no case shall a residential building
exceed 2.5 stories in height; building heights are maximum heights except as provided in §§
152.050 through
152.059
2   Plus 1 foot for each 1-foot of building height over 35 feet
3   4,000 square feet per dwelling, minimum parcel of 40,000 square feet
4   When no part of a parking building is used for residence purposes directly above it, it
shall not be considered in computing maximum lot coverage
5   Does not apply to permitted uses for I-D
6   Where the boundary of an I District adjoins the boundary line of any residence district, the
minimum front, rear or side yard, as the case may be, shall be 100 feet; the area abutting the
residential boundary, to a depth of 50 feet, shall be landscaped and maintained so as to
minimize any undesirable visual effects of an industry on adjacent residential uses; the balance
of the yard area shall be used for open space or vehicular parking
7   Except as provided elsewhere in §§
152.085 through
152.089
 
      (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. A maximum impervious surface
coverage of 50% in all business districts shall be calculated by dividing the
amount of the site that is covered by any impervious surface by the total area
of the lot. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, roofs,
streets, sidewalks and parking lots paved with asphalt, concrete, compacted
sand, compacted gravel or clay.
      (4)   Minimum floor area requirements.
         (a)   The following minimum floor area requirements shall apply to all
residential uses in the village, except multi-family dwellings located in the
R-3 District.
            1.   There shall be a minimum of 700 square feet of floor area for
any one-bedroom dwelling unit.
            2.   There shall be a minimum of 1,100 square feet of floor area
for any two-bedroom dwelling unit.
            3.   There shall be a minimum of 1,400 square feet of floor area
for any three-bedroom dwelling unit.
            4.   There shall be a minimum of 1,700 square feet of floor area
for any four-bedroom dwelling unit.
            5.   There shall be a minimum of 2,000 square feet of floor area
for any dwelling unit with five or more bedrooms.
         (b)   The following minimum floor area requirements shall apply to all
multi-family dwellings located in the R-3 District:
            1.   There shall be a minimum of 500 square feet of floor area for
any efficiency suit.
            2.   There shall be a minimum of 650 square feet of floor area for
any one-bedroom dwelling unit.
            3.   There shall be a minimum of 900 square feet of floor area for
any two-bedroom dwelling unit.
            4.   There shall be a minimum of 1,200 square feet of floor area
for any three-bedroom dwelling unit.
            5.   There shall be a minimum of 1,500 square feet of floor area
for any dwelling unit with four or more bedrooms.
      (5)   Visibility at intersections.
         (a)   A traffic safety visibility triangle area, which may include
private property and/or public right-of-way, is a triangle area defined by
measuring 30 feet from the intersection of street curb lines (or the right-of-
way lines where there is no curb) and connecting the lines across the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-66.jpg]
         (b)   For intersections of streets and driveways, the traffic safety
visibility area shall be created by measuring 25 feet from the edge of the
driveway along the curb or right-of-way line and 20 feet along the driveway,
perpendicular from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.jpg]
         (c)   No structure, sign or landscape element shall exceed 24 inches
in height, measured from the top of the curb, within the traffic safety
visibility area, unless approved by the Zoning Inspector. Mailboxes are exempt
from this requirement.
         (d)   An exception to this requirement shall be for existing trees
where the tree canopy (branches and leaves) is trimmed to a minimum of eight
feet above grade.
(Prior Code, § 1121.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.089 MIXED USE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Mixed Use District (MUD) and its regulations are
established in order to permit and encourage an intensity and mix of
development that supports and implements the development policies that have
been established for the area by the village. The intent in establishing this
MUD in the development regulations to is to permit specific uses, at a
development intensity and with a form in a manner that:
         (a)   Encourages a pedestrian-oriented mix of uses which includes
retail, office, light industrial and residential;
         (b)   Expands the available economic options while strengthening the
existing uses found;
         (c)   Encourages land development pattern that increases employment
and resident densities; and
         (d)   Establishes design criteria for new development or redevelopment
to ensure that an aesthetically pleasing and pedestrian friendly environment is
provided.
      (2)   The MUD standards shall apply to the zoning districts:
         (a)   Downtown Canal District (B-1); and
         (b)   Warwick Business District (B-2).
   (B)   Building and parking setback requirements. Principal and accessory
buildings shall be located on a lot in a manner that maintains the front, side
and rear yard requirements as set below.
Building and Parking Setback Requirements
 Downtown Canal District (MUD-B-1) Warwick Business District (MUD-B-2)
Building and Parking Setback Requirements
                                                             Downtown Warwick
                                                             Canal    Business
                                                             District District
                                                             (MUD-B-  (MUD-B-2)
                                                             1)
Building
   Front setback from street right-of-way
      Minimum                                          None     None
      Maximum                                    10 feet1 10 feet
   Side and rear setback
      From residential district property line          25 feet  25 feet
      From non-residential district property line      None     None
Parking
   From street                                            Equal to Equal to
                                                            building building
                                                             setback  setback
      Minimum                                          5 feet2  5 feet
      Maximum                                          None     None
   From rear or side lot line of adjacent residential     10 feet  10 feet
district
   From rear or side lot line of adjacent non-residential 5 feet   5 feet
district
Notes:
1   The maximum setback from the street right-of-way may be increased to 20
feet with the approval of the Planning Commission for the purpose of providing
a plaza, café, public art or similar pedestrian-oriented amenity
2   Must be sufficient to meet landscape requirements for screening as provided
in division (F) below
 
   (C)   Building height requirements. Principal buildings shall have height
characteristics as set forth below.
 
Building Height Requirements
                           Downtown Canal District  Warwick Business District
                           (MUD-B-1)                (MUD-B-2)
Minimum height requirement 2 stories (that are      None
                           occupiable floors)
Maximum height requirement 50 feet                 45 feet
 
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading. In addition to the standards for off-
street parking set forth in §§
152.275 through
152.282, the following restrictions shall apply.
      (1)   Location and access; residential uses.
         (a)   Off-street parking shall not be located in a principal buildings
front yard setback area.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be located at the rear or side of a
principal building on the interior of the lot and shall be accessed by means of
shared driveways, preferably from side streets or alleys.
         (c)   Driveways may be located in the rear yard setback area.
      (2)   Location and access; non-residential uses.
         (a)   No more than 20% of off-street parking shall be located to the
side of a principal building.
         (b)   All other off-street parking shall be located at the rear of the
building on the interior of the lot and shall be accessed by means of shared
driveways, preferably from side streets or alleys.
         (c)   Driveways may be located in the rear yard setback area.
      (3)   Shared parking requirements for non-residential uses are set forth
in §
152.278(E).
      (4)   Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking shall be provided at the level of
one for every ten automobile parking spaces, with a minimum of two spaces and a
maximum of 20 spaces.
         (a)   Location and access. Required bicycle parking spaces shall be
located at least as close to the entrance of the building as the nearest non-
handicapped automobile parking space. Where automobile parking is provided in
an enclosed area, bicycle parking shall be provided within the enclosure or in
such a way as to provide comparable protection from the elements.
         (b)   Size. Required bicycle parking spaces for non-residential uses
must have minimum dimensions of two feet in width by six feet in length.
         (c)   Design. Bicycle racks and lockers must be securely anchored to
the ground or a building. Bicycle racks must provide a stable frame to which
the bicycle may be conveniently secured, such as the inverted-U, post and loop
or another type of rack that meets these standards. Bicycle racks that support
the wheel but not the frame of the bike may not be used to fulfill a bicycle
parking requirement. In parking lots and parking garages, physical barriers,
such as posts or bollards, shall be provided so as to prevent a motor vehicle
from striking a parked bicycle.
   (E)   Site development standards.
      (1)   Landscaping, visual screening and buffers. Landscaping, visual
screening and buffers shall be provided for all lots in the entire MUD in
accordance with provisions in §§
152.240 through
152.248.
      (2)   Fencing. Fencing requirements shall be provided for all lots in the
MUD in accordance with the provisions set forth herein and those referenced in
§
152.225, the requirement of this section shall prevail.
         (a)   In the entire MUD, only ornamental fences up to five feet in
height with 25% maximum opacity are permitted in the required building and
parking setback area unless provided for screening pursuant to §§
152.275 through
152.282. Alternatively, a masonry wall up to three feet in height may be
provided in lieu of an ornamental fence in the required building and parking
setback area unless the fence is provided for screening pursuant to §§
152.275 through
152.282.
         (b)   In the entire MUD, fences and walls shall be permitted in
interior rear and side yards consistent with the following:
            1.   The fence shall not exceed seven feet in height; and
            2.   The fence shall be to the side and rear of the building,
starting at the building line and may not encroach on the front setback.
      (3)   Lighting requirements. Appropriate site lighting, including lights
for signs, buildings and streets, shall be arranged so as to provide safety,
utility and security and control light trespass and glare adjacent properties
and public roadways. Lighting shall be provided for all parking lots in the
entire MUD in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
         (a)   All development with ten or more parking spaces are required to
provide exterior lighting for all vehicular use areas including entrance and
exit access drives and pedestrian paths connecting parking areas to principal
buildings.
         (b)   Lighting shall be integrated into the public character both in
terms of illumination and fixtures.
         (c)   Light poles shall not be higher than 30 feet.
         (d)   All parking lot and security fixtures shall be cut-off fixtures
except for decorative lighting meaning that the lighting fixture is shielded or
constructed so that all light emitted is projected below a horizontal plane
running through the lowest light-emitting part of the fixture.
      (4)   Building siting and orientation.
         (a)   Principal residential structures; single-family detached and
two-family residential dwellings.
            1.   The main entrance(s) to the residence shall face the street.
            2.   The front wall of the principal structure shall be parallel to
the street or perpendicular to a radius of the curve of the street extended
through the approximate center of the main mass, if the street is curved.
         (b)   Principal residential structures; single-family attached,
townhomes and multi-family.
            1.   The entrance to at least one dwelling unit within each
building shall face the street.
            2.   The front wall of the principal structure, or the front wall
of at least one principal structure in a multi-building development, shall be
parallel to the street or perpendicular to a radius of the curve of the street
extended through the approximate center of the main mass, if the street is
curved.
         (c)   Principal residential structures on corner lots.
            1.   In general, the structure shall face one of the streets and
not the corner.
            2.   One side of the structure shall be designated the front and
shall be subject to the requirements set forth in division (E)(4)(a) or (E)(4)
(b) above and requirements regarding private walks and entryways set forth
below.
         (d)   Private garages.
            1.   Doors of attached garages shall not face the street.
            2.   An attached garage shall be sited so that its door is not
visible from the primary direction of approach.
            3.   Detached garages shall be located in the rear yard.
         (e)   Non-residential development.
            1.   Commercial/retail buildings shall maintain a continuous wall
plane at the front property line. Architectural features, such as bay windows,
may project beyond this plan no more than 30 inches at minimum height of 12
feet above the sidewalk.
            2.   The main entrance to the principal structure shall face the
street.
            3.   The front wall of the principal structure shall be parallel to
the street or perpendicular to the radius of the curve of the street extended
through the approximate center of the main mass, if the street is curved.
      (5)   Distance between residential buildings. Structures containing
either single-family attached, townhomes or multi-family dwelling units shall
be separated from each other by a minimum of ten feet at their closest points.
      (6)   Maximum building coverage.
         (a)   Commercial/retail uses. The amount of impervious coverage shall
be no more than 80% of the total gross lot area unless covered under the
provisions of a planned development or development agreement.
         (b)   Single-family attached, townhome and multi-family residential
uses. The amount of impervious coverage shall be no more than 80% of the total
gross lot area.
      (7)   Driveway curb cuts.
         (a)   Townhomes and two-family residential dwellings. No more than one
driveway curb cut per lot.
         (b)   Single-family attached and multi-family. No more than two
driveway curb cuts per development site.
         (c)   Non-residential uses. No more than one driveway curb cut per
lot, except that when the lot is wider than 150 feet then no more than two
driveway curb cuts per lot.
      (8)   Pedestrian amenities.
         (a)   Generally. Provision shall be made in the design of all
developments for non-vehicular circulation systems, including, but no limited
to, sidewalks, pathways and bikeways.
         (b)   Sidewalks.
            1.   Sidewalks at least five feet wide shall be provided on all
sides of a lot that abut a public street, way or open space.
            2.   Sidewalks at least five feet wide shall be provided along the
full length of a building façade that features a customer entrance and along
any building façade abutting a public parking area.
            3.   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be designed to be
visually attractive and distinguishable from driving surfaces through us of
durable, low-maintenance surface materials such as pavers, brick or scored
concrete to enhance pedestrian safety and comfort.
         (c)   Linkages. To the maximum extent feasible, provision shall be
made in the design of development for connections with existing or future
pedestrian systems on adjoining properties, including, but not limited to,
connections to existing or future sidewalks, bikeways, walkways and any
existing or planned trail systems.
   (F)   Design criteria. All new development or redevelopment projects in the
MUD shall be subject to the guidelines and review procedures established in §§
152.050 through
152.059. The following design criteria are also established to ensure that new
development or redevelopment in the MUD complies with the purpose and
objectives of this subchapter.
      (1)   General criteria.
         (a)   The proposal shall enhance and improve the character of the
community and be appropriate and compatible with its surroundings in accordance
with the intent, objectives and development requirements set forth in this
chapter.
         (b)   Buildings, structures and landscaping should be designed and
located on the site and be of a scale and massing to complement adjacent
buildings and enhance the character of the surrounding area.
         (c)   Each building or unit of a multiple building development should
have its own distinct identity, yet should also be compatible with adjacent
units or buildings in terms of scale, proportion, color and materials.
         (d)   Ingress and egress to drive-through facilities, if permitted,
should be from side streets.
      (2)   Building design, walls and materials.
         (a)   Building design.
            1.   Building entrances should be oriented to the major
thoroughfare where feasible.
            2.   Architectural style is not restricted, but the evaluation of
the appearance of the project shall be based on the quality of its design and
relationship to the prevailing design characteristics of the surrounding area.
            3.   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves and
parapets, shall be composed on a façade of a building with harmonious
proportions in relationship to one another and surrounding buildings.
            4.   Architectural features should be placed upon a façade of a
building in a pattern that creates a building fenestration that has a constant
rhythm and harmonious appearance.
         (b)   Building walls.
            1.   When the wall of a non-residential building faces a public
right-of-way or is within 45 degrees of facing a public right-of-way, a minimum
of 50% of such wall area, on the ground floor, shall have display-type windows.
The bottom edge of such window shall not be higher than three feet above grade.
A maximum of 20% of such windows may be opaque.
            2.   Walls shall have no more than 20 feet of continuous wall
length devoid of windows, on any ground floor, unless the wall includes
architectural features such as piers, columns, defined bays or an undulation of
the building, so that a pedestrian scale, rhythm and visual interest is
created.
            3.   Walls that meet the following criteria shall be exempt from
the requirements of division (F)(2)(b)2. above:
               a.   Two walls face one another, are separated by not more than
30 feet and the space between the two walls is used for servicing the
buildings; or
               b.   The wall faces an area devoted solely to loading and
delivery and the wall is screened from view from all public rights-of-way,
parking areas and abutting residential areas.
         (c)   Building materials.
            1.   Buildings shall have finish materials on all sides, including
brick, stone, decorative spilt face block or other similar materials. Finish
materials shall not include exposed concrete or cinder block or stucco unless
it is utilized with bands of accent color, recessed or protruding belt courses,
wide reveals or combinations thereof.
            2.   A combination of materials, textures, colors and finishes are
preferred to create visual interest.
   (G)   Conditional use regulations.
      (1)   General criteria. A conditional use, and uses accessory to such
conditional use, shall be permitted in the MUD only when specified as a
conditional use in such district, and only if such use conforms to the
following general criteria and specific conditions, standards and regulations
set forth in this section. The Planning Commission shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the following criteria
and shall find adequate evidence that the use, as proposed, satisfies the
following criteria:
         (a)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to
be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity, and that such use will not essentially
change the character of the same area;
         (b)   Will not restrict or adversely affect the existing use of the
adjacent property owners;
         (c)   Will be properly landscaped in compliance with §§
152.240 through
152.248; and
         (d)   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the
conditional use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety or general welfare.
      (2)   Supplemental criteria for specific uses. The following are specific
conditions, standards and regulations for certain conditional uses as they
apply to MUDs.
         (a)   Drive-through facility.
            1.   Such facilities shall be located to the rear of the building
if possible or in area least disruptive to pedestrian or vehicular traffic if
location to the rear of the building is not feasible.
            2.   To the extent possible, access to the drive-through should be
provided from a side street and, if necessary, there shall be one access to/
from the main thoroughfare.
            3.   Any proposed loudspeaker system shall be approved by Planning
Commission.
            4.   At least five waiting or stacking parking spaces shall be
provided.
         (b)   Outdoor storage.
            1.   Outdoor storage of materials includes the storage of goods,
materials or products associated with the principal use. The storage of
radioactive, toxic or otherwise hazardous materials shall not be permitted.
            2.   The following provisions shall apply to outdoor storage of
goods and materials:
               a.   Areas devoted to outdoor storage shall be located in a side
or rear yard only and shall comply with the building setbacks set forth in the
building and parking setback requirements table set forth above;
               b.   All outdoor storage areas shall be contiguous to the
principal building;
               c.   No outdoor storage area shall be permitted to occupy or
interfere with traffic circulation, required parking areas, public sidewalks or
pedestrian access;
               d.   The area of the lot devoted to outdoor storage shall not
exceed 25% of the ground floor area of the principal building;
               e.   Areas devoted to outdoor storage shall be paved with
asphalt or concrete and free of dust;
               f.   All outdoor storage areas shall be enclosed with a solid
wall or fence, including solid gates. The wall or fence shall be at least seven
feet tall. No razor or barb wire shall be permitted. Where the fencing presents
a face to the front or to a public street, a landscaping strip of at least
three feet shall be provided with 50% opacity at planting as a means of
camouflaging the storage wall or fence;
               g.   No signs shall be permitted in conjunction with outdoor
storage areas except those otherwise in compliance with the sign regulations in
§§
152.295 through
152.306; and
               h.   No junk, inoperative or unlicensed vehicle, except for the
inventory of new or used cars for sale, shall be permitted to remain outside an
enclosed building for more than 48 hours.
         (c)   Outdoor display. Outdoor display of materials includes
merchandise in an outdoor area that is representative of the merchandise for
sale from inside the building and is permitted by retail uses subject to the
following provisions:
            1.   The display of merchandise for sale is limited to products
that are customarily associated with the operation of the principal business
located on the premises and conducted by the employees of such principal
business;
            2.   The areas devoted to outdoor display must comply with all
building setbacks and yard regulations set forth in divisions (B) and (E) above
and be contiguous to the building;
            3.   The height of the outdoor display may not exceed six feet;
            4.   No outdoor display is permitted to occupy or interfere with
traffic circulations, required parking areas, public sidewalks or pedestrian
access; and
            5.   No signs are permitted in conjunction with the outdoor display
except those otherwise in compliance with the sign regulations in §§
152.295 through
152.306.
(Prior Code, § 1121.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 152.100 CLUB CONSERVATION OVERLAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Club Conservation Overlay District (CCO) and its
regulations are established in order to permit and encourage the intensity, mix
of development and the open space preservation and standards that are currently
in existence within the mapped areas of the overlay.
   (B)   Establishment of Club Conservation Overlay. The boundaries of the Club
Conservation Overlay (CCO) are defined as the area to the south of South Lake
Shore Drive, the area west of North Oakwood Drive and the area to the northwest
of the lake as defined by the map. The boundaries of the Club Conservation
Overlay District shall be indicated on the official village zoning map with the
symbol CCO.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The Club Conservation Overlay District permitted use table sets
forth uses allowed within the overlay district.
Club Conservation Overlay District Permitted Use Table
Permitted Uses                                                  Club
P   =   Permitted use                                     Conservation
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards Overlay
C    =   Conditional use                                  District (CCO)
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited
Club Conservation Overlay District Permitted Use Table
Permitted Uses                                                                  Club
P   =   Permitted use                                                     Conservation
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards                 Overlay
C    =   Conditional use                                                  District
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited                                               (CCO)
Agricultural uses
   Agricultural uses                                                         PS
Commercial and office uses
   Banks, drive-through banking facilities and financial institutions
   Bed and breakfast establishments                                          C
   Car wash
   Child day care centers                                                 C
   Commercial entertainment or recreation uses (indoors)
   Deli, meat market and dairy store
   Drive-through refreshment stand
   Gasoline stations (fueling only)
   General offices (administrative, professional and business)
   Medical and dental offices
   Mini-storage facility
   Mixed use buildings
   Hotels
   Personal service establishments
   Private recreational uses (outdoors)
   Restaurants and taverns
   Retail
   Sexually oriented businesses
   Strip or open pit mining, soil removal or extracting operations
   Veterinarian offices (no boarding)
Public and institutional uses
   Airports, airfields and landing strips
   Cemeteries
   Churches and places of worship
   Educational institutions (public or private)
   Government offices and buildings                                          C
   Institutions for higher education
   Institutions for human medical care
   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses (except miniature), swimming facilities, C
tennis clubs, country clubs, riding academies and other similar uses
   Quasi-public, fraternal or service facilities
   Recreational areas and campgrounds                                        C
   Wildlife refuge and game preserve
Residential uses
   Multi-family dwellings of the townhouse, rowhouse, garden apartment or    P
multi-story type
   Single family                                                             P
   Two-family residential
 
      (2)   All industrial uses listed in the permitted use table in §
152.086 are expressly prohibited in the CCO.
   (D)   Site development standards.
      (1)   The site development standards for Club Conservation Overlay
District table establishes the minimum site development standards for the
district.
 
Site Development Standards for Zoning Districts
                   Minimum             Minimum Setbacks
                   Lot Width Minimum                                   Maximum
Dwelling/ Minimum  at        Lot                 Side Yard             Building
Building  Lot Area Building  Frontage  Front     Each Side  Rear Yard  Height
Type               Setback   (Feet)    Yard Feet (Feet)     (Feet)     (Feet)
                   Line
                   (Feet)
Single-   2,500
family    square   –       –       10        10         10         32
          feet
Multi-    2,500
family    square   –       –       10        10         10         32
          feet
 
      (2)   Structures.
         (a)   New structures may not expand the total square footage of the
existing structure it is replacing by more than 10% until such time as the
county determines a structures footprint may be expanded.
         (b)   Any decks or porches which are planned to be enclosed living
space must be identified as such in the initial plan approval process.
         (c)   Numbers for residencies should be clearly affixed to the front
of the structure to be clearly identified.
         (d)   No structure may be built or placed which obstructs easements or
access to same.
         (e)   Easements may not be encroached upon by lot lessees without
written, enacted permission and then only for utilities required for
habitation, such as water well, electric service poll or drainage line.
         (f)   View sheds to the lake are not guaranteed for the residential
owner, however view sheds should be taken into account for expansions and
reconfigurations of structures.
      (3)   Fences. No fence is permitted to be constructed, including fencing
created by landscaping except for fenced in areas for pets.
      (4)   Landscaping.
         (a)   General landscaping requirements shall hereby be consistent with
§§
152.240 through
152.248, unless otherwise stated below. Where there is conflict between a
provision in this section and a provision for §§
152.240 through
152.248, the requirement of this section shall prevail.
         (b)   The placement of new trees should take into account potentially
obstructing lake views both currently and in the future.
      (5)   Lake docks.
         (a)   No private boat house on the shores of the lake or sides of
private docks is permitted.
         (b)   Docks must be minimally ten feet apart from one another, and be
seven feet long for a single, 12 feet long for a double and 18 feet long for a
triple.
   (E)   Open space standards.
      (1)   General open space standards shall hereby be consistent with §§
152.260 through
152.264, unless otherwise stated below. Where there is conflict between a
provision in this section and a provision for §§
152.260 through
152.264, the requirement of this section shall prevail.
      (2)   (a)   A 60-foot buffer beginning from the lake shoreline outward
will be maintained for the health and conservation of the lake.
         (b)   All existing structures existing within the established lake
buffer are permitted, with any application for an addition to be reviewed by
the appropriate boards and commissions.
   (F)   Design criteria.
      (1)   Generally. All new development or redevelopment projects in the CCO
District shall be subject to any applicable design guidelines established in
these codified ordinances. Where there is conflict between a provision in this
section and another chapter of these this Zoning Code, the requirement of this
section shall prevail.
      (2)   General criteria.
         (a)   The proposal shall enhance and improve the character of the
community and be appropriate and compatible with its surroundings in accordance
with the intent, objectives and development requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
         (b)   Buildings, structures and landscaping should be designed and
located on the site and be of a scale and massing to complement adjacent
buildings and enhance the character of the district.
         (c)   Each building or unit of a multiple building development should
have its own distinct identity, but should also be compatible with adjacent
units in terms of scale, proportion, color and materials.
      (3)   Building design.
         (a)   Architectural style is not restricted, but the evaluation of the
appearance of the project shall be based on the quality of its design and
relationship to the prevailing design characteristics of the surrounding
community.
         (b)   Building components such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets
shall be composed on a building façade with harmonious proportions in
relationship to one another and surrounding buildings.
      (4)   Building materials. Buildings should have a finish on all sides
which either relates to the existing materials of the community or enhances the
aesthetic of the community.
   (G)   Conditional use regulations.
      (1)   Generally. A conditional use, and uses accessory to such
conditional use, shall be permitted in the CCO District only when specified as
a conditional use in such District, and only if such use conforms to the
following general criteria, and the specific conditions, standards and
regulations set forth in this section. The Planning Commission shall review the
particular facts and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the
following criteria and shall find adequate evidence that the use, as proposed,
satisfies the following:
         (a)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to
be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity, and that such use will not essentially
change the character of the same area;
         (b)   Will not restrict or adversely affect the existing use of the
adjacent property owners;
         (c)   Will be properly landscaped in compliance with §§
152.260 through
152.264; and
         (d)   That the establishment, main- tenance or operation of the
conditional use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety or general welfare.
      (2)   Supplemental criteria for specific uses. The following are specific
conditions, standards and regulations for certain conditional uses.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast establishments. Parking for guest lodging must
be provided on the lot. Off-street parking spaces are not counted toward the
parking requirement.
         (b)   Recreational areas and campgrounds. Campgrounds are not
permitted.
   (H)   Approval of overlay projects. All development projects within the CCO
District shall be subject to review requirements set forth in §§
152.050 through
152.059, in addition to review and approval by Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1123.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.101 OPEN SPACE CONSERVATION OVERLAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of the Open Space Conservation Overlay (OSC)
District is to encourage the flexibility in the development and design of
residential dwellings in the underlying zoning district, however preserve the
natural features of the development area and provide open/green space. Open
space design is intended to result in more efficient use of land, lower
development and infrastructure costs, and the conservation of land for
recreation or aesthetic and environment enrichment. It is not the intent of
this Overlay District to significantly increase overall development densities,
but to allow for the stipulated densities of the underlying zoning district. It
is also the intent of the Overlay District to encourage design flexibility,
creativity and development complementary to surrounding and existing
neighborhoods.
   (B)   Intent. The purpose of these open space design development regulations
is to enable and encourage flexibility of design and development of land in
such a manner as to:
      (1)   Preserve open space and natural features;
      (2)   Protect important natural resources and sensitive lands;
      (3)   Encourage creativity and adaptability in the layout of residential
lots; and
      (4)   Reduce the public long-term costs associated with infrastructure
maintenance.
   (C)   Applicability. The standards of this section shall apply in cases
where open space is required to be set aside as part of the development
requirement or in cases where an applicant voluntarily establishes open space
as part of a development. These standards may be overlaid upon the R-1, R-2 and
R-3 Zoning Districts. Unless otherwise stated in this section, all other
regulations within the underlying zoning district apply.
      (1)   Areas to be placed in open space. All regulations pertaining to
areas to be placed in open space referenced in §§
152.261 and
152.190 through
152.198 apply.
      (2)   Areas not considered open space. The following land areas are not
included as dedicated open space for the purposes of this section.
         (a)   The area of any street right-of-way proposed to be dedicated to
the public;
         (b)   Any submerged land area; and
         (c)   Any portion of the project used for commercial purposes.
   (D)   Permitted main uses. The following main uses shall be permitted in the
Overlay District, in addition to the permitted uses in the underlying zoning
districts:
      (1)   Public parks;
      (2)   Playgrounds;
      (3)   Public open spaces (wooded areas, grassy areas, nature preserves,
scenic overlooks); or
      (4)   Multi-purpose trails.
   (E)   Permitted accessory uses. Only the following accessory uses shall be
permitted in the overlay district:
      (1)   Accessory structures and uses located on the property of and
exclusively serving main uses described in §
152.210 including benches, bleachers, bike racks, water fountains, trails,
concession stands, piers, boardwalks, promenades, recreation equipment rental
facilities, boat ramps, restrooms, fences and similar structures accessory to a
permitted use;
      (2)   Surface parking lots and garages located on the property of main
uses described in §
152.210 and exclusively serving uses located on such property; or
      (3)   Signs accessory to a permitted use, excluding off premise
advertising signs, limited to identification, information and directional
signs, including sponsorship information where the sponsorship information is
dearly secondary to ocher permitted information on any particular sign.
(Prior Code, § 1123.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
OIL AND GAS WELLS
§ 152.115 PURPOSE, INTENT AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the standards in this subchapter is to provide
for health, safety and the welfare of the public through the regulation of
drilling and operation of wells for oil, gas or other hydrocarbons in gaseous
or liquid form within the boundaries of the village.
   (B)   Intent. The Planning Commission is aware of the difficulty in setting
rigid rules as to the areas to be included in any one drilling unit. It is the
intent of this subchapter to have an oil/gas well properly drilled, when
reasonable and expedient in the Planning Commission’s judgment, on one permit
encompassing all appropriate and compatible properties and to prevent the
withholding of permission by a landowner for the sole purpose of later
requesting individual permission to drill on the same lot or area.
   (C)   Authority of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is
herewith given full authority to give full force and effect to the intent as
expressed in division (A) above. Each application for a drilling permit shall
rest solely on its merits and the prudent use of discretion by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1125.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.116 STATE STANDARDS.
   Gas and oil wells shall be subject to all applicable state regulations
established in both the Ohio Revised Code and the Ohio Administrative Code.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.117 OIL/GAS WELL DRILLING PROHIBITIONS.
   No oil/gas well drilling unit shall be located in the R-3 High Density
Residential District or any business district.
(Prior Code, § 1125.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.118 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person wishing to drill for oil, gas or any other hydrocarbon within the
village must secure a permit according to the specifications set forth as
follows: a drilling permit, which is issued by the Planning Commission, shall
be required for the actual drilling of the well. No drilling permit shall be
issued until the applicant has paid the appropriate fee and met all
requirements of the chapter and whatever additional conditions the Planning
Commission may impose.
(Prior Code, § 1125.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.119 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to drill an oil/gas well in the village shall make
application for a permit with the Zoning Inspector who will, after all
requested information is provided, place it upon the Planning Commissions
agenda. The applicant must provide all the information required in this
subchapter. Eight copies of the application must be submitted. A non-refundable
fee, as determined in the village fee schedule, shall be submitted with
application. The drilling permit, if issued, will be terminated and become
inoperative, without any action on the part of the village, unless within 90
days from the date of issue of the drilling permit, actual on-site drilling
shall have commenced, and after the drilling of a well has commenced, the
cessation of a 90-day period of the drilling operations shall operate to
terminate and cancel the permit, and the well shall be deemed abandoned for all
purposes of this section, and it shall be unlawful thereafter to drill or
operate any such well without the issuance of another permit. Reapplication
requires payment of all fees.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may, for good cause, grant an extension of the
drilling permit up to six months without holding a public hearing. No well or
wells shall begin production until compliance with all provisions is certified
by both the Fire Inspector and the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   No person shall be permitted to drill more than two wells at any one
time. Application for the third permit, or any subsequent permit, may be made
upon completion of drilling the first, second and each numerically subsequent
well.
(Prior Code, § 1125.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see 152.999
§ 152.120 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall, before granting a drilling permit,
schedule a public hearing, the date and time of which shall be established by
the Planning Commission, and shall cause all property owners and residents
within the village within 1,000 feet of the wellhead to be notified of such
hearing, in writing, all by regular mail and notice shall be given of said
hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village not
less than ten days before the date of the hearing. The notice to be mailed must
carry a map showing the specific location of the well. All mailings shall also
include proof of service. The public hearing must not occur less than four
weeks prior to the commencement of drilling. It shall be sufficient notice to
all the residents of any one residential unit to address notice to “Resident or
Residents” at the mailing address of the residential unit.
   (B)   Compliance with the hearing provision of this division (B) shall be
mandatory conditions of drilling under the permit.
(Prior Code, § 1125.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.121 PROOF OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Prior to the issuance of a drilling permit of an oil/gas well, each
applicant shall deposit with the village, proof that a performance bond has
been attained. The bond shall be conditional upon compliance with all sections
of this subchapter. The amount of the bond, not less than the amount specified
in the village bond and insurance fee schedule, shall be set by the Planning
Commission. The bond shall be maintained by the permittee until the well is
abandoned, all equipment is removed, the premises restored to pre-drilling
condition and the well is sealed. The bond shall not only be conditional upon
compliance of the applicant, but also upon compliance with this subchapter by
any assignee and owner of any permit granted hereunder, or any employee,
contractor, subcontractor or any other party performing services in connection
with any permit issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 1125.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.122 PLOT PLAN AND VICINITY MAP.
   (A)   Each application for drilling an oil/gas well must be accompanied by a
plot plan and vicinity map of the drilling unit involved in the application
drawn to a legible scale and showing thereon:
      (1)   The lot lines of all properties within 1,000 feet of the proposed
well site;
      (2)   The location of all buildings and structures 750 feet of the
proposed well site;
      (3)   The location of all associated wells and appliances; that is, the
wellhead, piping, tank batteries, access roads, drives and fences;
      (4)   A landscaping plan drawn to reasonable scale as required by the
Planning Commission;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the owners and the addresses the
occupants of each property shown on the map within a radius of 1,000 feet of
the proposed well sites;
      (6)   A circle drawn on the map at a radius of 300 feet, 400 feet, 500
feet, 700 feet and 1,000 feet from the proposed well site;
      (7)   A schematic of all pipe lines;
      (8)   A listing of the name, address and telephone number of the firm
and/or individuals making application for a permit; and
      (9)   If the request for a drilling permit is part of a larger planned
drilling area, the applicant must submit a plan upon which is shown the
location of all projected drilling units, including the proposed locations of
the drilling sites.
   (B)   The applicant must provide eight copies of the application and all
attachments.
(Prior Code, § 1125.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.123 DRILLING UNIT SIZE.
   The minimum size of a drilling unit shall be 20 acres for wells from 2,500
to 4,000 feet deep and 40 acres for wells deeper than 4,000 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1125.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.124 MINIMUM DEPTH OF WELL.
   All oil/gas wells drilled in the village shall be a minimum of 2,500 feet in
depth. No production is permitted from wells shallower than 2,500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1125.10) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.125 SPACING OF OIL/GAS WELLS.
   The spacing between wells shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1125.11) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.126 PLACEMENT OF OIL/GAS WELLS.
   A well site shall not be less than 500 feet from any boundary of the subject
tract. If the drilling unit borders on any village corporate municipal
boundary, the wellhead shall be at least 300 feet from said boundary.
(Prior Code, § 1125.12) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.127 DRILLING NEAR STRUCTURES; EXCEPTIONS.
   No drilling shall be permitted for oil or gas wells within 600 feet of a
building designed for human occupancy, including residential structures,
industrial or mercantile, or any school, child day care centers, church,
hospital or assembly hall, regardless of the zone where drilling is permitted.
In the case of particular installations where compliance with the foregoing
distance requirements may be handicap to the use of the property and where no
undue hazard will be created, the Planning Commission may, with waivers as
required in §
152.128, reduce the distance to not less than 400 feet. Any reduction in
distance must be based upon a consideration of the special features such as
topographical conditions, nature or occupancy, and proximity of the storage
tanks, degree of fire protection provided and the facilities available at fire
departments to cope with liquid fires. The above features are not to be in any
way construed as a limitation of matters which the Planning Commission may
consider. The Planning Commission shall have the right to consider any and all
other special features it may deem important in determining whether or not an
undue hazard is created.
(Prior Code, § 1125.13) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.128 CONSENT FROM PROPERTY OWNERS WITHIN 1,000 FEET.
   (A)   All applications for a drilling permit shall be accompanied by
consents in writing of owners of 51% or more of the real estate units located
within a radius of 1,000 feet from the proposed wellhead. The consents shall
plainly state that the persons whose signatures are affixed thereto do give
their consent to the drilling of an oil or gas well on the site as proposed in
the application for a permit. Measurement for determination of the distance of
the aforesaid 1,000 feet shall be made from the exact center of the hole that
is to be drilled for the well. As used in this section, the term REAL ESTATE
UNIT shall mean a land area with a common ownership irrespective as to how it
may be divided into lots. No permits may be issued until 51% of the real estate
units within 1,000 feet of the wellhead approves of the drilling of oil/gas
well.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the owner of any property abutting a proposed well
site:
         (a)   Has leased his or her property for drilling for oil or gas;
         (b)   Has signed and filed an application for a permit to drill for
oil or gas on his or her property, or his or her leasee, contractor or agent
has signed and filed the application;
         (c)   Has signed and delivered a written assent under division (A)
above to an application for a permit to drill a well for oil or gas; or
         (d)   Has utilized his or her property by entering into a community
lease or agreement for drilling a well for oil or gas, if drilled under the
community lease or agreement is to be located nearer to his or her property
than the well or proposed well site first above mentioned in this division (B).
      (2)   The owner shall not be permitted to object, but shall be deemed to
have given his or her written assent under the provisions of this division (B),
to drilling a well for oil or gas on the proposed well site first mentioned
above. However, any owner who has united his or her property by entering into a
community lease or agreement as set forth in division (B)(1)(d) above, shall
not share in any adjacent well production because of conflicting lease
interests of the real estate caused by the real estate being in more than one
unitized area. It is the expressed intention of the provision to prohibit an
owner of property from unitizing identical property under more than one
community lease or agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1125.14) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.129 WAIVERS FROM OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS WITHIN 600 FEET.
   (A)   In addition to the consents required in §
152.128, no drilling shall be permitted for oil and/or gas wells in any
permitted zone within 600 feet of any building or structure of any nature
unless written waivers, as hereinafter provided for, accompany an application
for a permit.
   (B)   The owners and occupants of any buildings or structures within 600
feet of the proposed well site must waive, in writing, the distance set forth.
The owners or occupants may waive down to a minimum distance of 400 feet
without the necessity of vacating, or causing to be vacated, any buildings or
structures during drilling operations.
   (C)   Where the owners or occupants of any buildings or structures which are
closer than 600 feet to a proposed drilling site have, at any time, waived, in
writing, the distance requirement provided for in this division (C) for any
proposed drilling site which was closer than 600 feet to the buildings or
structures, then the property owners and occupants shall be deemed to have
waived the distance requirement provided for in the party waived for the other
proposed drilling site, or to the distance that the well was actually drilled,
whichever is smaller.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may refuse to reduce the distance from any
building or structure even though the owners and occupants within 600 feet of
the well site have waived the distance set forth in this division (D). The
Planning Commission will evaluate each case from the perspective of safety,
impact on the immediate area and relationship to long-term plans for the area.
(Prior Code, § 1125.15) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.130 CONSTRUCTION NEAR PRODUCING OIL/GAS WELLS AND STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Oil/gas well. No zoning permit shall be issued for the construction of
any building designed for human occupancy or use i.e., residential, industrial,
business or public, if the proposed site is within 150 feet of any oil/gas
well; until such time as the well has been plugged in conformance with this
section.
   (B)   Oil/gas well storage tanks. No zoning permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building designed for human occupancy, i.e., residential,
industrial, business or public, if the proposed site is within 150 feet of any
oil/gas well storage tank.
(Prior Code, § 1125.16) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-23-11, passed
4-18-2023)
§ 152.131 EASEMENTS OR OPTIONS FOR PIPELINES AND STORAGE TANKS.
   An applicant who has received drilling permission and has realized a
producing well shall submit to the Zoning Inspector copies of easements or
options for easements for a pipeline where the pipeline will be crossing other
property, and shall also provide a copy of an agreement or option for a
location or storage tanks should there be a producing well.
(Prior Code, § 1125.17) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.132 STATE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No drilling permit will be issued by the Planning Commission until the
applicant presents evidence of having obtained a permit issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas, and bearing a current
date.
(Prior Code, § 1125.18) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.133 PERMIT ISSUANCE; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the permit shall be issued.
However, prior to the issuance, the village shall be provided with a policy or
certificate of insurance covering the applicant’s liability in an amount of not
less than that set forth in the village bond and insurance fee schedule. The
insurance policy or policies must be maintained for such period of time as
drilling is in progress, the well is pulled and plugged as hereinafter
provided. The insurance policies and the coverages thereunder must be to the
complete satisfaction of the village and such policies may be rejected by the
Solicitor for any valid reason. The rejection of the insurance policy by the
village shall serve to stay the granting of permit theretofore approved until
such time as an insurance policy providing coverage resulting entirely
satisfactory to the village has been provided by the applicant. All policies
must include coverage for property damage, personal injury and including
coverage resulting from blowout or cratering. The village shall be named as a
named or additional insured and shall be held harmless from all liability
resulting from the granting of a permit under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1125.19) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.134 INSPECTION; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Duly authorized representatives of the village, including the Zoning
Inspector, Fire Inspector, Fire Chief and Police Chief, shall have the
authority, at any time, to enter upon property where a well is being drilled, a
well site is being contemplated or a producing well site for the purpose of
inspecting the site, equipment and all other things necessary to ensure the
compliance with this section. Non-compliance is punishable as per §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 1125.20) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.135 INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO THE VILLAGE.
   The name, address and telephone number of the persons responsible for the
ownership, operation and all maintenance of each producing well located within
the village shall be furnished to the Zoning Inspector, Police Department and
Fire Department in order that some responsible person may be reached at any
time in the event of an emergency. The Zoning Inspector shall prepare a list of
such names and addresses and shall post a list in a conspicuous place in the
police department for ready reference. Detailed instructions regarding the
shutdown procedures for each well shall be filed with the Fire Chief. This
information shall also be posted at the well site. In addition, the developer
shall notify the Zoning Inspector 48 hours before commencing drilling
operations.
(Prior Code, § 1125.21) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.136 MAINTENANCE OF WELL SITE, INGRESS AND EGRESS; LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The applicant shall install a 40-foot long culvert as approved by the
Street Superintendent, at each entrance or exit, to provide for a gravel entry
roadway, a minimum of 12 feet wide, shall be laid to the well site to reduce
the amount of mud being carried to the right-of-way.
   (B)   The well site shall be landscaped and maintained in a manner approved
by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All access roads shall be 12 feet in width and constructed and
maintained in a manner to allow access and egress by public safety vehicles
under all climatic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1125.22) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-22-07, passed
3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.137 ROTARY EQUIPMENT.
   The drilling preparation used in wells drilled with rotary equipment shall
be capable of sealing off each oil, gas, brine or fresh water stratum above the
producing horizon/objective formation and shall be capable of preventing
blowouts and flows of salt or fresh water in accordance with good drilling
practices.
(Prior Code, § 1125.23) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.138 CABLE TOOLS.
   Wells drilled with cable tools shall have the innermost string of casing
equipped with a high pressure master gate valve and control head and oil saver,
securely anchored by concrete, prior to drilling any formation likely to
contain oil or gas.
(Prior Code, § 1125.24) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.139 TRAINING OF CREWS; CONDITION OF EQUIPMENT.
   All crews shall be trained in the operation of the blowout preventer,
control head and related equipment, and all equipment used shall be in good
condition.
(Prior Code, § 1125.25) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.140 SEALING TO PROTECT FRESH WATER WELLS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the permittee to seal gas and oil wells to
protect fresh water wells from salt water or other pollution or contamination
in such proper manner as is in accordance with good practice. Both the
permittee and his or her driller shall establish contingency plans for the
immediate furnishing of potable water to affected residents from such period as
may be required to re-establish proper potability on any polluted or
contaminated well or wells. The permit holder and his or her driller shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the obligation to provide potable water,
without cost to the residents receiving the same. Drillers’ responsibility
shall include covering the cost of drilling new wells or extending public water
service, if available.
   (B)   Drillers shall also pay to have all water wells, within 1,000-foot
radius of the well being drilled, tested before and after drilling.
(Prior Code, § 1125.26) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.141 FENCE REQUIREMENTS; ELECTRIC POWERED WELL PUMP REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permittee shall maintain a fence around the drilling site in
accordance with good oil field practices. Should a well be a producing one, the
permittee shall upon completion of the well construct a fence as specified by
the Planning Commission. The fence shall be maintained around the well pump
satisfactory to the Zoning Inspector. All landscaping shall be completed as
soon as possible after setting the storage tanks, in no case longer than six
months.
   (B)   All well pumps shall be operated by explosion-proof electric motors
only unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission for demonstrated good
cause.
   (C)   All existing and future tank batteries, separators, temporary holding
pits and all other installations of equipment used at oil or gas well
installations located within the village, shall be surrounded by a fence which
shall be of sufficient height and construction to meet with the approval of the
Planning Commission. The fence shall be a minimum of six feet high and of a
design and material specified by the Planning Commission, with suitable locking
gates for access. Locking devices used on all gates, valves or other secured
apparatus in conjunction with any well or tank battery operated by a permittee
in the village shall be keyed alike so that one key will provide access to any
such secured apparatus. A copy of such key shall be provided to the Fire
Department and the Police Department serving the village. All shut-off valves
shall be painted a conspicuous common color.
   (D)   Electrical underground power service in schedule 40 plastic buried to
a minimum of 24 inches is required.
   (E)   No lighting during drilling or on a producing well shall constitute a
nuisance to surrounding properties.
(Prior Code, § 1125.27) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.142 PROHIBITED DRAINAGE IN STORM OR SANITARY SEWERS AND LAKES, PONDS,
CANAL AND STREAMS.
   No waste, sludge, water or effluents of any type from where an oil or gas
well is being drilled shall in any manner be drained or emptied into any storm
or sanitary sewer or lakes, ponds, canal or streams in the village. All sludge
water, or effluents which are allowed to run off and pollute any area outside
the dike shall be removed from the site in trucks, tanks or similar vehicles
for disposal in suitably licensed and permitted sites.
(Prior Code, § 1125.28) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.143 STORAGE TANKS, LOCATION AND DIKING.
   (A)   Oil well storage tanks must be located a minimum of 500 feet from
industrial, commercial or residential structures, or any church, hospital,
assembly hall, library, public building or other public gathering place, and at
least 200 feet from a public road, street or railroad tracks, regardless of the
zone.
   (B)   Where more than one well is to be drilled, storage tanks for all wells
shall be grouped together.
   (C)   All oil well storage tanks or groups of tanks situated within the
corporate limits of the village shall be diked or other suitable means taken to
prevent discharge of liquid from endangering adjoining property or reaching
waterways. Each dike shall have a capacity of not less than that of the tank or
tanks served by the enclosure.
   (D)   All dikes shall be constructed of earth, clay, steel, masonry or
reinforced concrete so constructed as to be watertight and afford adequate
protection and, if of concrete or masonry, shall be properly reinforced and
shall have footings below the frost line. All pits used for storage or disposal
of sludge or lime shall be lined with plastic or comparable material to prevent
leaching and shall be of sufficient size to contain all effluents.
(Prior Code, § 1125.29) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.144 MUD ON SITE OR STREETS.
   All permittees shall use care at a drilling site to keep the area around the
drilling site free of mud which could be carried onto public streets by any
vehicle or other equipment used at the drilling site. Should any mud be carried
onto public streets from a drilling site, the Zoning Inspector has the
authority to request the permittee to clean up the public streets to his or her
satisfaction. Failure to take specific steps to reduce mud at a given location,
as requested by the Zoning Inspector, shall be grounds for revocation of the
permit and/or forfeiture of the bond posted under §
152.121.
(Prior Code, § 1125.30) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.145 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY; SITE CLEAN UP.
   (A)   The permittee shall restore the streets, sidewalks and other public
places of the village damaged or destroyed in the operation of drilling or
preparing to drill to their former condition immediately upon completion of
drilling.
   (B)   The permittee shall clear the area of all litter, rubbish, machinery,
derricks, buildings, oil or other substances used or allied to the use of
drilling or producing operations.
   (C)   The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold the village harmless
from any and all liability arising out of the issuance of a drilling permit for
an oil or gas well or unlawful brine disposal.
   (D)   The permittee shall pay to the owners of any reality, crops, building,
improvements, goods or chattels located in the area, except persons of the
drilling unit, any extra cost of insurance on such property imposed by reason
of granting of the permit to the operations carried on thereunder.
   (E)   Landscaping shall be required around all well sites and tank batteries
to standards established by the Planning Commission. All landscaping shall be
completed within six months after setting the storage tanks and shall meet all
other standards set forth in §§
152.240 through
152.248.
(Prior Code, § 1125.31) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.146 ABANDONED WELLS.
   (A)   In the event that a well is abandoned, it shall be the duty of the
owner of lessee to notify the Zoning Inspector of such abandonment before the
well has been abandoned and the equipment removed. A well shall be considered
abandoned when it is in a condition in which it is incapable of functioning for
30 days.
   (B)   All permittees shall be required to pull and/or plug a well site upon
abandonment and to remove all aboveground appurtenances and to return the
ground to its original grade and condition. All other rules or regulations
promulgated by any department or division of the state relative to pulling,
plugging, and abandoning oil or gas wells shall also be complied with. All such
efforts shall be completed within six months of abandonment.
   (C)   Landscaping may be preserved at the time of abandonment of the well,
if feasible, and only if desired by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 1125.32) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.147 NOISE LEVEL.
   Drilling operations shall be controlled by double exhausts or otherwise so
that the noise level of actual drilling does not exceed the noise level of 75
decibels in a 600 feet radius during maximum noise-producing periods.
(Prior Code, § 1125.33) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.148 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The wells, tank batteries and access roads shall be located as shown
on the approved site plan.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide a list of all subcontractors, including
the brine disposal subcontractors, with names, mailing addresses and telephone
numbers.
(Prior Code, § 1125.34) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.149 BRINE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   Any method of brine disposal within the village is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 1125.35) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.150 GRANTING OF VARIANCES.
   Variances to any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be governed by §
152.056.
(Prior Code, § 1125.36) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION
§ 152.175 PLACEMENT OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAE.
   (A)   General. The following requirements apply to all wireless
telecommunications facilities regardless of the zoning district in which they
are to be located. These general standards are to be supplemented with the
specific regulations for non-residential and residential districts as set forth
in divisions (B) and (C) below.
      (1)   When the proposed wireless telecommunications facility is to
include a new tower, a plot plan at a scale of not less than one inch is equal
to 100 feet which shall be submitted. This plot plan shall indicate all
building uses within 300 feet of the proposed facility. Aerial photos and/or
renderings may augment the plot plan.
      (2)   The location of the tower and equipment shelter shall comply with
any natural resources protection standards established in this Zoning Code,
including those for floodplain, wetlands and steep slopes.
      (3)   Security fencing eight feet in height shall surround the tower,
equipment shelter and any guy wires, either completely or individually as
determined by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   The following buffer plantings may be located around the perimeter
of the security fence as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission:
         (a)   An evergreen screen shall be planted that consists of either a
hedge, planted three feet on center maximum; or
         (b)   A row of evergreen trees planted five feet on center maximum.
      (5)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
      (6)   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide evidence of written contact with all wireless service providers who
supply service within a one-half mile radius of the proposed facility. The
applicant shall inquire about potential collocation opportunities at all
technically feasible locations and present written information regarding the
collocation inquiries. The application shall not be deemed complete until this
information is provided. The applicant’s letter(s) as well as response(s) shall
be presented to the Planning Commission as a means of demonstrating the need
for a new tower.
      (7)   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall be constructed
initially with the structural capability to allow a minimum of two additional
carriers to collocate on the tower. The fenced in area shall be sufficient size
to accommodate the additional carriers’ equipment building(s).
      (8)   The tower shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar color
minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) or Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (9)   No advertising is permitted anywhere on the facility, with the
exception of identification signage.
      (10)   All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the
Zoning Inspector notifying the Inspector of any tower facility located in the
municipality whose use will be discontinued and the date this use will cease.
If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180 days, the Zoning
Inspector may declare the facility abandoned. (This excludes any dormancy
period between construction and the initial use of the facility). The
facility’s owner/operator will receive written notice from the Zoning Inspector
and instructed to either reactivate the facility’s use within 180 days, or
dismantle and remove the facility. If reactivation or dismantling does not
occur, the municipality will remove or will contract to have removed the
facility and assess the property owner/operator or the landowner on which the
facility exists the costs.
      (11)   The owner or operator shall be required as a condition of issuance
of a permit to post a cash or surety bond acceptable to the Village Engineer
of, not less than the amount established in the village bond and insurance
schedule, per vertical foot from natural grade of the wireless communication
tower which bond shall insure that an abandoned, obsolete or destroyed wireless
communication antenna or tower shall be removed within six months of cessation
of use and abandonment.
      (12)   No tower under 150 feet shall be artificially lighted except to
assure safety or as required by the FAA. Any tower between 150 and 200 feet in
height shall follow safety marking and obstruction lighting as prescribed by
the FAA. Security lighting around the equipment shelter is permitted. No strobe
lighting is permitted unless required by the FAA.
      (13)   No trespassing signs shall be posted around the facility with a
telephone number of whom to contact in the event of an emergency.
      (14)   Applicants will provide evidence of legal access to the tower site
thereby maintaining this access regardless of other developments that may take
place on the site.
      (15)   A conditional use permit must be approved by the Planning
Commission with a subsequent zoning permit issued by the Zoning Inspector.
Collocation of antennas on a single tower is a permitted use and will not be
subject to the conditional use permitting process.
      (16)   Regular scheduled maintenance shall be conducted on weekdays from
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in all districts. The village shall be notified when
emergency maintenance is required.
      (17)   Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a
wireless telecommunications antenna and/or tower shall be in writing and
supported by evidence contained in a written record of the proceedings of the
Planning Commission.
      (18)   Underground equipment shelters are encouraged, especially in
nonindustrial districts, and may be requested by the Planning Commission.
      (19)   Any wireless telecommunications facility built for or by the
village for the primary purpose of police, fire and emergency communications
shall be considered an essential service within the meaning of this chapter.
   (B)   CD, R-1 and I-1 Districts. Wireless telecommunications facilities
proposed for CD Conservation District, R-1 Residential District and I-
1 Industrial District are subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Sole use on a lot. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted as a sole use on a lot subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size allowable for the district;
         (b)   Minimum yard requirements; tower: the minimum distance to any
single-family or multi-family residential use or district lot line shall be
equal to the vertical height of the wireless telecommunications tower plus 50
feet. Equipment shelter must comply with minimum setbacks;
         (c)   Maximum height; tower: 250 feet (includes antenna). Equipment
shelter must comply with maximum building height for the district; and
         (d)   Maximum size of equipment shelter: 300 square feet for a single
shelter, or, if there is more than one shelter, 750 total square feet.
      (2)   Combined with another use. A wireless telecommunications facility
is permitted on a property with an existing use subject to the following
conditions.
         (a)   The existing use on the property may be any permitted use in the
district or any lawful non-conforming use and need not to be affiliated with
the wireless telecommunications provider. The wireless telecommunications
facility will not be considered an addition to the structure or value of a non-
conforming use.
         (b)   The wireless telecommunications facility shall be fully
automated and unattended on a daily basis and shall be visited only for
periodic and necessary maintenance (except during construction or an
emergency).
         (c)   Minimum lot area: the minimum lot area shall be the area needed
to accommodate the tower (and guy wires, if used), the equipment shelter,
security fencing and buffer planting.
         (d)   Minimum yard requirements; tower: the minimum distance to any
single- family or multi-family residential use or district lot line shall be
equal to the vertical height of the wireless telecommunications tower plus 50
feet. Equipment shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements for
the primary lot.
         (e)   Access: the service access to the equipment shelter shall,
whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing
use.
         (f)   Maximum height; tower: 250 feet (includes antenna). Equipment
shelter must comply with maximum building height for the district.
         (g)   Maximum size of equipment shelter: 300 square feet for a single
shelter, or, if there is more than one shelter, 750 square feet.
      (3)   Combined with an existing structure. Where possible, an antenna for
a wireless telecommunications facility shall be attached to an existing
structure or building subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Maximum height: five feet above the existing building or
structure, whichever is greater.
         (b)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate shelter (not located on, or attached to, the building),
the shelter shall comply with the following:
            1.   The minimum setback requirements for the subject zoning
district;
            2.   A vegetative buffer must be established;
            3.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with the
parking or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal use;
            4.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or, if there is more than one shelter, 750 total square feet; and
            5.   Building materials used on the equipment shelter shall be
similar to those used on the principal structure.
   (C)   R-2, R-3, B-1 and B-2 Districts. Wireless telecommunications
facilities that include new towers are not permitted in the R-2 Medium Density,
R-3 High Density, B-1 Downtown Canal District or B-2 Warwick Business District.
However, antennas attached to existing buildings or structures are
conditionally permitted. In applying for a permit in any residential district,
the applicant must present substantial evidence as to why it is not technically
feasible to locate in a more appropriate business district. Once those efforts
have been exhausted, a wireless telecommunications facility may be located in a
residential district subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   General. The wireless tele- communications facility shall be fully
automated and unattended on a daily basis and shall be visited only for
periodic and necessary maintenance. This shall apply to division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Combined with a non-residential use. An antenna may be attached to
a non-residential building or a structure that is a permitted use in the
district, including, but not limited to, a church, a municipal or governmental
building or facility, agricultural building, and a building or structure owned
by a utility. The following conditions shall be met:
         (a)   Maximum height: the antenna may not extend more than five feet
above the existing building or structure; and
         (b)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate shelter, the shelter shall comply with the following:
            1.   The shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements
for the subject zoning district;
            2.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or, if there is more than one shelter, 750 total square feet;
            3.   A vegetative buffer will be established;
            4.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with the
parking or vehicular circulation on the site for the principle use; and
            5.   Building materials used on the equipment shelter shall be
similar to those used on the principal structure.
   (D)   Criteria for a conditional use. Wireless telecommunications facilities
may be permitted as a conditional use. In order to be considered for review,
the applicant must prove that a newly-constructed tower or antenna placement is
necessary in that opportunities for collocation on an existing tower in the
village or adjacent communities are not feasible. The following steps must also
be taken for the application to be considered for review in this category:
      (1)   The applicant shall present a landscaping plan that indicates how
the wireless telecommunications facility will be screened from adjoining uses,
if applicable;
      (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the telecommunications tower
must be located where it is proposed in order to service the applicant’s
service area. There shall be an explanation of why a tower and this proposed
site is technically necessary;
      (3)   Where the telecommunications facility is located on a property with
another principal use, the applicant shall present documentation that the owner
of the property has granted an easement or entered into a lease for the
proposed facility and that the vehicular access is provided to the facility;
and
      (4)   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide evidence of written contact with all wireless service providers who
supply service within a one-half mile radius of the proposed facility. The
applicant shall inquire about potential collocation opportunities at all
technically feasible locations. The contacted providers shall be requested to
respond in writing to the inquiry within 30 days. The applicant’s letter(s) as
well as response(s) shall be presented to the Planning Commission as a means of
demonstrating the need for a new tower.
(Prior Code, § 1129.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
RIPARIAN SETBACK DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.190 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the system of streams within the village
contribute to the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the
village. The purpose of these riparian setback development standards is to
protect and preserve the water quality within streams of the village and to
protect residents of the village from property loss and damage because of
flooding and other impacts of the stream. These regulations shall control uses
and development within a riparian setback that would impair the ability of the
riparian area to:
      (1)   Reduce flood impacts by absorbing peak flows, slowing the velocity
of flood waters and regulating base flow;
      (2)   Stabilize the banks of streams to reduce bank erosion and the
downstream transport of sediments eroded from stream banks;
      (3)   Reduce pollutants in streams during periods of high flows by
filtering, settling and transforming pollutants already present in streams;
      (4)   Reduce pollutants in streams during periods of high flows by
filtering, settling and transforming pollutants in runoff before they enter
streams;
      (5)   Provide areas for natural meandering and lateral movement of stream
channels;
      (6)   Reduce the presence of aquatic nuisance species to maintain diverse
and connected riparian vegetation;
      (7)   Provide high quality stream habitats with shade and food to a wide
array of wildlife by maintaining diverse and connected riparian vegetation;
      (8)   Benefit the village economically by minimizing encroachment on
stream channels and reducing the need for costly engineering solutions such as
dams and riprap, to protect structures and reduce property damage and threats
to the safety of watershed residents, and by contributing to the scenic beauty
and to the environment of the village, the quality of life of the residents of
the village and corresponding property values; and
      (9)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
village.
   (B)   This subchapter has been adopted to protect these services of riparian
areas by providing reasonable controls governing structures and uses in
riparian setbacks.
(Prior Code, § 1133.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.191 COMPLIANCE AND VIOLATIONS.
   No zoning approvals shall be issued by the village without full compliance
with the terms of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1133.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.192 ESTABLISHMENT OF A RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   Riparian setbacks are established as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Streams addressed by these regulations are those which meet the
definition of STREAM in §
152.015, and appear are indicated on at least one of the following maps:
      (1)   USGS topographical map;
      (2)   County riparian setback map; and
      (3)   Soils maps located in the soil survey for the county, USDA and
NRCS.
   (C)   Widths of setbacks are measured as horizontal map distance outward
from the ordinary high water mark on each side of a stream, and are
established. A minimum of 30 feet on each side of all streams, draining an area
less than 0.05 square mile (32 acres).
   (D)   The following are exempt from the terms and protection of these
regulations: grassy swales, roadside ditches, drainage ditches created at the
time of a subdivision to convey stormwater to another system, tile drainage
systems and stream culverts.
   (E)   The following shall apply to the riparian setback.
      (1)   Where the 100-year floodplain is wider than the riparian setback on
either or both sides of the stream, the riparian setback shall be extended to
the outer edge of the 100-year floodplain. The 100-year floodplain shall be
defined by FEMA and approved by the County Department of Building Standards.
      (2)   (a)   Because the gradient of the riparian corridor significantly
influences impacts on the stream, the following adjustment for steep slopes
will be integrated into the riparian setback formulae for width determination.
 
Average Percent Slope Width of Setback
>25%                  Add 30 feet
 
         (b)   Average streambank slope is to be calculated using methodology
outlined in the “Ohio Supplement to Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds,
Technical Release Number 55 (TR-55)” by USDA and NRCS.
      (3)   Wetlands shall be delineated by a qualified professional under
guidelines established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and the site delineation approved by the
appropriate agencies. All wetland delineations shall also include the latest
version of the state rapid assessment method for wetland evaluation approved at
the time of application of the regulations.
      (4)   The applicant shall be responsible for delineating the riparian
setback, including any expansions or modifications as required by divisions (B)
through (D) above, and identifying this setback on all subdivisions, site plans
and/or zoning permit applications. This delineation shall be done at the time
of application of the preliminary plans, or all plans that are required, or at
the time of submission of any permit applications. This delineation shall be
subject to review and approval by the County SWCD. As the result of this
review, the County SWCD may require further studies from the applicant.
      (5)   Prior to any soil disturbing activity, the riparian setback shall
be clearly delineated with construction fencing or other suitable material by
the applicant on site, and such delineation shall be maintained throughout
soil-disturbing activities. The delineated area shall be maintained in an
undisturbed state unless otherwise permitted by these regulations. All fencing
shall be removed when a development project is completed.
      (6)   No approvals or permits shall be issued by the village prior to
delineation of the riparian. Setback shall be in conformance with these
regulations.
      (7)   Upon completion of an approved subdivision, the riparian setback
shall be permanently recorded on the plat records for the county.
(Prior Code, § 1133.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.193 USES PERMITTED IN THE RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   The following uses are permitted by right within the riparian setbacks
without prior approval. Open space uses that are passive in character shall be
permitted in the riparian setback including, but not limited to, those listed
in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) below. No use permitted under these
regulations shall be construed as allowing trespass on privately held lands.
Alteration of this natural area is strictly limited. Except as otherwise
provided in these regulations, the riparian setback shall be preserved in its
natural state.
      (1)   Recreational activity. Passive recreational uses, as permitted by
federal, state and local laws, such as hiking, non-motorized bicycling,
fishing, hunting, picnicking and similar uses and associated structures
including boardwalks, pathways constructed of pervious material, picnic tables
and wildlife viewing areas.
      (2)   Removal of damaged or diseased trees. Damaged or diseased trees may
be removed. Because of the potential for felled logs and branches to damage
downstream properties and/or block ditches or otherwise exacerbate flooding,
logs and branches resulting from the removal of damaged or diseased trees that
are greater than six inches in diameter, shall be anchored to the shore or
removed from the 100-year floodplain.
      (3)   Revegetation and/or reforestation. The revegetation and/or
reforestation of the riparian setback shall be allowed without approval of the
County SWCD. Species of shrubs and vines recommended for stabilizing flood
prone areas along streams within the county as referenced in any listing or
schedule of woody plants as determined by the county codified ordinances.
      (4)   County Engineer. The County Engineer maintains the right of access
to all streams within the county for the purposes outlined in the R.C. §§
6131.01 to 6131.64, 6133.01 to 6133.14, 6135.01 to 6135.27 and 6137.051.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted by right within the riparian setbacks
with prior approval of the design.
      (1)   Stream bank stabilization/erosion control measures. Best Management
Practices (BMPs) for stream bank stabilization or erosion control may be
allowed if such practices are within permitted uses by the local, state and
federal government regulations and are ecologically compatible and emphasize
the use of natural materials and native plant species where practical and
available. Such stream bank stabilization/ erosion control practices shall only
be undertaken upon approval of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP
or SW3P) by the County SWCD.
      (2)   Crossings. In reviewing plans for stream crossings, the village may
confer with the County SWCD; the State Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Natural Areas; the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Division
of Surface Water; the County Engineer; the County Department of Environmental
Services; the County Health Department; or other technical experts as
necessary.
         (a)   Limited crossings of designated streams through the riparian
setback by vehicles, storm sewers, sewer and/or water lines, and public utility
lines will be per the approval of local, county and state governing agencies
and as a part of the regular subdivision review process.
         (b)   One driveway crossing per stream per tax parcel will be allowed
for individual landowners.
         (c)   Roadway crossings for major and minor subdivisions, open space
subdivisions or any other non-single-family residential use shall be designed
and constructed per the County Engineer’s design standards and as approved by
the County Planning Commission and the village. If more than two crossings per
1,000 linear feet of stream center is required for these areas, the applicant
must apply for a variance.
         (d)   All roadway crossings shall be perpendicular to the stream flow
and shall minimize disturbance to the riparian setback and shall mitigate any
necessary disturbances.
      (3)   Placement of facilities. Placement of stormwater retention or
detention facilities may be considered within the riparian setback if:
         (a)   Stormwater quality treatment that is consistent with current
state standards is incorporated into the basin; and
         (b)   The stormwater quality treatment basin is located at least 50
feet from the ordinary high water mark of the stream.
(Prior Code, § 1133.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.194 USES PROHIBITED IN THE RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   The following uses are specifically prohibited within the riparian setback.
   (A)   Construction. There shall be no structures of any kind, except as
permitted under these regulations.
   (B)   Drilling. There shall be no drilling for petroleum or mineral
products, mining activity.
   (C)   Roads or driveways. There shall be no roads or driveways, except as
permitted under these regulations.
   (D)   Motorized vehicles. There shall be no use of motorized vehicles of any
kind, except as permitted under these regulations.
   (E)   Parking lots. There shall be no parking lots or other human-made
impervious cover, except as permitted under these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1133.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.195 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES OR USES IN THE RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   Structures and uses within the riparian setback, existing on August 5,
2013, that are not permitted under these regulations may be continued but shall
not be expanded except as set forth below.
   (B)   If damaged or destroyed, these structures or uses may be repaired or
restored within two years from the date of damage/destruction, at the property
owners’ own risk.
   (C)   A residential structure or use within the riparian setback existing on
August 5, 2013, may be expanded subject to the provisions of divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(3) below:
      (1)   The expansion conforms to existing zoning regulations;
      (2)   The expansion must not impact the stream channel or the 100-year
floodplain; and
      (3)   The expansion must not exceed an area of 15% of the footprint of
existing structure or use that lies within the riparian setback. Expansions
exceeding 15% of the total footprint within the riparian setback must be
obtained through a variance from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Non-residential structure or use expansions will be permitted only
through a variance from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 1133.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.196 BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When an applicant disputes the boundary of the riparian setback or the
ordinary high water mark of a stream, the applicant shall submit evidence to
the County SWCD, with a copy to the Zoning Inspector, that describes the
boundary, presents the applicant’s proposed boundary and presents all
justification for the proposed boundary change.
   (B)   The County SWCD shall evaluate all materials submitted and shall make
a written recommendation to the Board of Zoning Appeals within a reasonable
period of time not to exceed 60 days. A copy of this recommendation shall be
submitted to the applicant. If during this evaluation the County SWCD requires
further information to complete this evaluation, the applicant may be required
to provide additional information.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall decide such boundary disputes. The
party contesting the location of the riparian setback or the ordinary high
water mark of the streams as determined by these regulations shall have the
burden of proof in case of any such appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1133.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.197 VARIANCES WITHIN RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   Applications for variances to the provisions of this chapter shall be
submitted to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consult with representatives from
the County SWCD; the State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Natural
Areas; the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Surface Water; the
County Engineer; the Department of Environmental Services of the county; the
County Health Department; or other technical experts as necessary to consider
variance requests.
   (C)   Expansions of residential structures or uses exceeding 15% of the
footprint area and expansions of all non-residential structures or uses are
subject to divisions (C)(1) through (C)(4) below:
      (1)   The expansion conforms to the existing zoning regulations;
      (2)   The expansion must not impact the stream channel or the 100-year
floodplain;
      (3)   The expansion of a non-residential structure or use must not affect
upstream or downstream hydrologic conditions which could cause damage from
flooding or streambank erosion to landowners in those areas. A hydrologic study
must be completed by non-residential applicants only as a process of the
variance application; and
      (4)   The expansion of a non-residential structure or use will not exceed
25% of the of the footprint area. The 25% expansion limit is per the portion of
the structure or use that lies within the riparian setback.
   (D)   Requests for variances for subdivisions will be considered for the
following:
      (1)   An additional stream crossing or crossings for a subdivision or
open space development which is necessary for the health, welfare and safety of
the residents of the subdivision; or
      (2)   A reduction of the setback width, not to exceed 10% of the
prescribed riparian setback width.
   (E)   No variances shall be granted for expansion of the following
structures or uses:
      (1)   Facilities which use, store, distribute or sell petroleum-based
products or any hazardous materials. Such facilities include, but are not
limited to, asphalt plants, dry cleaners, gasoline service stations and road
maintenance facilities; or
      (2)   Facilities which use, store, distribute or sell products which may
contribute higher than acceptable concentrations of dissolved or particulate
matter to stormwater runoff around the facility.
   (F)   In reviewing whether to grant variances, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The extent to which the requested variance impairs the functions of
the riparian area. This determination shall be based on sufficient technical
and scientific evidence as provided by the applicant and the agencies listed in
divisions (A) through (E) above;
      (2)   The soil type and natural vegetation of the parcel as well as the
percentage of the parcel that is in the 100-year floodplain;
      (3)   The degree of hardship these regulations place on the applicant and
the availability of alternatives to the proposed activity; and
      (4)   Whether a front, side or rear yard setback zoning variance or
similar variance should be considered to maintain the required riparian setback
area.
(Prior Code, § 1133.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.198 INSPECTION OF RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   The riparian setback shall be inspected by the County SWCD:
      (1)   When a preliminary subdivision plat or other land development plan
is submitted to the county;
      (2)   When a building or zoning certificate is requested; or
      (3)   Prior to any soil disturbing activity to inspect the delineation of
the riparian setback as required under these regulations.
   (B)   The riparian setback shall also be inspected annually or as time
permits by the County SWCD or approved monitoring entity for compliance with
any approvals under these regulations or at any time evidence is brought to the
attention of the County SWCD that uses or structures are occurring that may
reasonably be expected to violate the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1133.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
ACCESSORY AND TEMPORARY USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.210 ACCESSORY USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses
that are incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses permitted in
accordance with §§
152.085 through
152.089, or §§
152.190 through
152.198.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Accessory structures and uses shall be incidental to and
customarily found in connection with a principal building or use permitted in
the district in which it is located.
      (2)   An accessory structure and/or use shall be subordinate to and
serves the principal building or use.
      (3)   An accessory structure and/or use shall be located on the same lot
as the principal use for which it serves.
      (4)   An owner shall be required to apply for and receive a zoning
certificate unless exempted or not required by this section.
      (5)   An accessory use or structure shall not be established unless a
principal use has first been established on a site in conformance with the
applicable provisions of the Zoning Code.
      (6)   Accessory uses and structures are prohibited in any open space area
that is preserved by a covenant deed restriction, or other private agreement.
      (7)   Accessory structures used for agricultural purposes on lots of five
or more acres shall be exempt from these regulations. To be exempt, the
building should be one which is necessary for, or customarily used in
conjunction with, the specific agricultural use that is active on the property.
Such structures include, but are not limited to, barns, greenhouses and other
buildings that are specifically designed for agricultural uses. Although such a
structure may have some incidental use for other than agricultural activities,
the principal use of the structure must be agricultural.
      (8)   Accessory uses in the riparian setback shall be subject to the
accessory use regulations for the zoning district.
      (9)   No accessory building or structure shall be used to operate a
business, store equipment or supplies used for a business, or be a location
where employees meet or park, in any residential district.
      (10)   Accessory buildings and structures with a floor area less than or
equal to 20 square feet shall not require a zoning certificate but shall comply
with the location and setback requirements of this section.
      (11)   Size requirements and location is as follows.
         (a)   Detached accessory structures shall be set back 15 feet from the
principal building.
         (b)   Accessory buildings and structures with a floor area greater
than 144 square feet shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the side and
rear lot lines and should be screened with vegetation around the perimeter of
the structure.
         (c)   Accessory buildings and structures with a floor area less than
or equal to 144 square feet shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the
side and rear lot lines.
         (d)   The total building footprint area of all accessory structures on
a lot in the CR, R-1 and R-2 Districts shall not exceed 1,500 square feet.
         (e)   The total building footprint area of all accessory structures on
a lot in the R-3 and B-1 Districts shall not exceed 1,000 square feet.
         (f)   The total building footprint area of all accessory structures on
a lot in the B-2 and I-1 Districts shall not exceed 2,000 square feet.
         (g)   The maximum height of an accessory building or structure shall
not exceed the height of the principal dwelling.
         (h)   The total area of all accessory structures shall not exceed the
main floor area of the principal building’s footprint.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The permitted accessory use table lists the
accessory uses and structures allowed within all zoning districts. The
following is an explanation of the abbreviations and columns in the table.
      (1)   Permitted use (P). A “P” in a cell indicates that an accessory use
or structure is permitted by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted
accessory uses and structures are subject to all other applicable regulations
of this Zoning Code, including the additional standards set forth in this
section.
      (2)   Permitted use with use specific standards (PS).
         (a)   A “PS” in a cell indicates that an accessory use or structure is
allowed by right in the applicable zoning district if it meets the additional
standards set forth in the numerically referenced sections in the last column.
Permitted uses and structures with use specific standards are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this section and Zoning Code.
         (b)   Accessory uses and structures permitted with use specific
standards under this category are approved administratively by the Zoning
Inspector pursuant to the zoning certificate review procedure, where required.
      (3)   Conditional use (C). A “C” in a cell indicates that, in the
respective zoning district, an accessory use or structure is permitted if
reviewed and approved as a conditional use pursuant to §§
152.055 and
152.056. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this Zoning Code, including the additional standards set forth in this section.
      (4)   Prohibited uses (blank cells).
         (a)   A blank cell indicates that the listed accessory use or
structure is prohibited in the applicable zoning district.
         (b)   The outdoor storage of junk, building materials, parking of
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles, or similar items of personal property
is prohibited on all lots where the principal use is residential. Outdoor
storage on all other lots shall be classified as outdoor storage and displays
as regulated in this section.
      (5)   Certificate required. The certificate required column identifies if
a zoning, or other certificate is required for the applicable accessory use or
structure.
      (6)   Yards permitted. The yards permitted column identifies in which
yards the applicable accessory use or structure is permitted. See also §
152.088(A) for more information about specific yard locations for interior,
corner, double frontage, flag, cul-de-sac or curved street lots.
      (7)   Numerical references (last column). The numbers contained in the
use specific standards column are references to additional standards and
requirements that apply to the use and structure type listed. Standards
referenced in the use specific standards column apply in all zoning districts
unless otherwise expressly stated and may apply to a conditionally permitted
use and/or a permitted use with use specific standards.
Permitted Accessory Use Table
Permitted Uses                                                  Zoning Districts     Yards
P   =   Permitted use                                                          Permitted
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards    R- R- R- B- B- I- F = Front Use Specific
C   =   Conditional use                                   CD 1  2  3  1  2  1  S = Side  Standards, see §
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited                                                 R = Rear
Permitted Accessory Use Table
Permitted Uses                                                  Zoning Districts     Yards
P   =   Permitted use                                                          Permitted
PS   =   Permitted with additional use specific standards    R- R- R- B- B- I- F = Front Use Specific
C   =   Conditional use                                   CD 1  2  3  1  2  1  S = Side  Standards, see §
Blank Cell   =   Prohibited                                                 R = Rear

Above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank                                         S or R    152.210(D)(1)
Accessory dwelling units                                        C  C  C  C  C                  152.210(D)(2)
Accessory recreational structures                               PS PS PS PS          R         152.210(D)(3)
Automated teller machines (ATM) (outdoors)                                  C  C  C  S or R    152.210(D)(4)
Cisterns or rain barrels                                        PS PS PS PS PS PS PS S or R    152.210(D)(5)
Community gardens                                               PS PS PS PS PS PS PS F, S or R 152.210(D)(6)
Detached accessory buildings or structures                      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S or R
Drive-through facilities                                                    C  PS PS S or R    152.210(D)(7)
Driveways                                                       PS PS PS PS PS PS PS F, S or R 152.278
Drop-off boxes                                                              PS PS PS S or R    152.210(D)(8)
Farm market and roadside stands                                 PS PS PS PS PS PS PS F, S or R 152.210(D)(9)
                                                                                     Inside
Home occupations                                                PS PS PS PS PS PS    principal 152.210(D)(10)
                                                                                     building
Keeping of bees                                                 PS PS PS          C  S or R    152.210(D)(11)
Keeping of chickens                                             PS PS PS PS C  C  PS S or R    152.210(D)(12)
Keeping of domestic animals                                     PS PS PS C  C        S or R    152.210(D)(13)
Outdoor dining                                                              C  C               152.210(D)(14)
Playsets and trampolines                                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S or R
Porches or decks                                                PS PS PS PS PS PS PS F, S or R 152.210(D)(15)
Satellite dishes                                                PS PS PS PS PS PS PS           152.210(D)(16)
Short-term rentals                                              C  C  C  C  C  C  C            152.210(D)(17)
Small wind energy conservation systems                          C  C  C  C  C  C  C  S or R    152.210(D)(18)
Solar panels; freestanding panels                               C  C  C  C  C  C  C            152.210(D)(19)
Solar panels; roof mounted panels                               PS PS PS PS C  C  C  R         152.210(D)(19)
Swimming pools                                                  PS PS PS PS PS PS PS S or R    152.210(D)(20)
                                                                                     Inside
Type B day care homes (1 to 6 children)                         P  P  P  P  P  P  P  principle
                                                                                     building
Unenclosed patios                                               PS PS PS PS PS PS PS F, S or R 152.210(D)(21)
 
   (D)   Use specific standards.
      (1)   Above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank. Above ground liquid
hydrocarbon storage tanks may be permitted with standards when compliant with
the following regulations and any other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   These use specific standards do not apply to above ground liquid
hydrocarbon storage tanks in business districts or to storage tanks for
operating gas or oil wells.
         (b)   Above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tanks are not permitted
in the riparian setback as defined in §
152.191.
         (c)   Above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tanks are not permitted
on steep slopes as defined in §
152.226.
         (d)   If the above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank is visible
to neighbors or the public street right-of-way, it must be perpetually
screened. The screening shall include a continuous planting, hedge, fence or
similar feature that will enclose the above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage
tank on all sides visible to neighbors or the public street right-of-way.
Screening established with plant materials shall provide 75% opacity within two
years of planting. All other types of screening shall completely screen the
above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank. The minimum height of the
screening material shall be one foot more than the height of the tank.
         (e)   No more than one above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank
shall be permitted and it shall not exceed 500 gallons except that a tank used
to store home heating fuel may exceed 500 gallons.
         (f)   The above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank shall be set
back a minimum of 60 feet from all lot lines.
         (g)   The above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank must be
installed, maintained and operated in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications. The installation, operation and maintenance of the tank shall
comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations.
         (h)   The above ground liquid hydrocarbon storage tank shall display a
large clearly visible label identifying the liquid contained in the tank.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units. Accessory dwelling units may be permitted
as a conditional use when compliant with the following regulations and any
other applicable sections of this subchapter.
         (a)   All structures and activity areas shall be set back a minimum of
100 feet from all lot lines and street rights-of-way.
         (b)   The use may be constructed within an existing dwelling unit
(interior apartment) or as a separate or converted accessory structure (e.g.,
converted garage, carriage house or stable).
         (c)   Only one accessory dwelling unit may be permitted on any single
lot.
         (d)   The floor area for the accessory dwellings shall be limited in
size to a maximum of 750 square feet or 25% of the square footage of the
principal dwelling, whichever is greater. In no case shall the accessory
dwelling be more than 75% of the square footage of the principal dwelling.
         (e)   Interior apartments may be contained within the existing house
or attached onto the exterior. However, they are to be constructed so that the
exterior appearance of a single-family home is maintained. A second front door
is not permitted. Any additions to the existing living quarters must comply
with all the dimensional requirements of the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   Accessory recreational structures. Accessory recreational
structures may be permitted with standards when compliant with the following
regulations and any other applicable sections of this subchapter.
         (a)   The structure shall be set back a minimum of 200 feet from the
front lot line and 50 feet from all other lot lines.
         (b)   Up to one basketball hoop is permitted on every lot, without a
zoning certificate. The placement of two or more basketball hoops on a single
lot, regardless if they are temporary or permanent, shall require a zoning
certificate.
         (c)   Any fencing related to accessory recreational structures shall
be subject to §
152.225.
         (d)   All lighting used to illuminate such recreational facilities
shall not be located in a required yard setback and shall not directly shine on
adjacent properties.
      (4)   Automated teller machines (ATM) (outdoors). Automated teller
machines may be permitted as a conditional use when compliant with the
following regulations and any other applicable sections of this subchapter.
         (a)   All vehicular entrances or exits shall be set back a minimum of
200 feet from the intersection of any streets under county or state authority.
         (b)   The ATM shall be subject to the vehicle stacking requirements of
§
152.280.
         (c)   The ATM shall be connected to the principal building either as
part of an attached canopy affixed to the principal building or as an integral
part of the principal building.
      (5)   Cisterns and rain barrels. Cisterns and rain barrels may be
permitted with standards when compliant with the following regulations and any
other applicable sections of this subchapter.
         (a)   This chapter shall not apply to cisterns or rain barrels that
are underground or not visible from any public right-of-way.
         (b)   For cisterns and rain barrels that are above ground and/or
visible from a public right-of-way, such equipment shall be subject to the
setback requirements of this chapter and the applicable zoning district,
however, cisterns and rain barrels are exempt from any setback requirements
from the principal building as may be established in this section on accessory
uses.
      (6)   Community gardens. Community gardens may be permitted with
standards when compliant with the following regulations and any other
applicable sections of this subchapter.
         (a)   Community gardens may be allowed as an accessory use when
associated with public or institutional principal use (e.g., religious
institution or educational facility).
         (b)   Community gardens may be located in an open space area if the
space is maintained by a homeowners’ association.
         (c)   The owner of the property shall have an established set of
operating rules addressing the governance structure of the garden; hours of
operation; maintenance and security requirements and responsibilities; and
distribution of garden plots.
         (d)   The name and telephone number of the owner and any person
designated as the person in charge of garden coordination along with a copy of
the operating rules shall be kept on file with the Office Administrator at
Village Hall.
         (e)   The site shall be designed and maintained so that water and
fertilizer will not drain onto adjacent properties.
         (f)   There shall be no retail sales on site, except for produce grown
on the site.
         (g)   Benches, bike racks, raised/ accessible planting beds, picnic
tables, seasonal farm stands, garden art and rain barrel systems may be
permitted if the community garden is located on a lot where the principal use
of the lot is public, institutional or commercial.
         (h)   Fences and walls shall be subject to the provisions of §
152.225.
      (7)   Drive-through facilities. Drive-through facilities may be permitted
as a conditional use when compliant with the following regulations and any
other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   The principal building to which the drive-through use is
accessory should be located at or near street setback lines. Any building with
a drive-through use shall have a prominent pedestrian entrance facing the
principal street upon which it has frontage.
         (b)   Drive-through facilities should be located on a roadway where it
is least disruptive to pedestrian and vehicular traffic. If an access drive is
located on a local roadway, it should be sited so as to minimize negative
impacts on adjacent residential uses.
         (c)   Drive-through facilities shall be subject to the vehicle
stacking requirements of §
152.280.
         (d)   Audible electronic devices such as loudspeakers, automobile
service order devices and similar instruments shall be set back a minimum of
300 feet from any residential dwelling unit and shall be subject to all
applicable noise ordinances. Any proposed loudspeaker system shall be approved
as part of the site plan.
         (e)   No service shall be rendered, deliveries made or sales conducted
within the required front yard; customers served in vehicles shall be parked to
the sides and/or rear of the principal structure.
         (f)   All drive-through areas, including, but not limited to, menu
boards, stacking lanes, trash receptacles, loudspeakers, drive-up windows and
other objects associated with the drive-through area shall be located in the
side or rear yard of a property to the maximum extent feasible, and shall not
cross, interfere with or impede any public right-of-way.
         (g)   A fence or screen between four and six feet in height shall be
constructed along any lot line abutting a residential district.
         (h)   Menu board signs:
            1.   One menu board sign for each stacking lane shall be allowed;
provided it does not exceed 35 square feet in sign area. Any additional
attachments such as pictures or photographs of food and other items shall be
included within the maximum signage area;
            2.   Menu board signage shall not be included in the total
calculated allowed signage for a property under §§
152.295 through
152.306;
            3.   No menu board sign shall exceed seven feet in height measured
from the grade of the adjacent driving surface to the top of the sign; and
            4.   All menu board signs shall be externally illuminated.
         (i)   Drive-through uses shall be configured and screened such that
glare from the headlights of vehicles waiting in the stacking line is
obstructed from shining into a public right-of-way or neighboring residential
use.
      (8)   Drop-off boxes. Drop-off boxes may be permitted with standards when
compliant with the following regulations and any other applicable sections of
this chapter.
         (a)   The drop-off box shall be screened on a minimum of three sides
to a height that fully screens the use unless otherwise required in this Zoning
Code.
         (b)   Screening shall be accomplished by the use of hedges, wall or
decorative fence that provides full opacity screening.
      (9)   Farm markets and roadside farm stands. Farm markets may be
permitted with standards when they are used in conjunction with any lawful
agricultural use pursuant and shall be subject to the following standards and
any other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   A farm market shall only be permitted where 50% or more of the
gross income received from the farm market is derived from produce raised on
farms owned or operated by the market operator in a normal crop year.
         (b)   The farm market shall be located on the same property where the
produce is raised.
         (c)   The structure shall not exceed 800 square feet.
         (d)   The structure and sign shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet
from all side and rear lot lines.
         (e)   The structure, signs and required off-street parking shall be
located and set back in such a manner as to not create a traffic hazard as
determined by the Zoning Inspector.
         (f)   Any signage located on the site shall not be illuminated and
shall be subject, where applicable, to the standards of §§
152.295 through
152.306.
      (10)   Home occupations. Home occupations may be permitted with standards
when compliant with the following regulations and any other applicable sections
of this chapter.
         (a)   Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit
and no use of any accessory building or yard space shall be permitted.
Accessory buildings shall not be used as space for home occupations.
         (b)   Home occupations shall not change the character of the
residential use and shall not adversely affect the uses permitted in the
residential district of which they are a part.
         (c)   The nature of home occupation as an accessory use relative to
its location and conduct of activity is such that the average neighbor, under
normal circumstances, would not be aware of its existence.
         (d)   Such use shall be conducted only by persons residing in the
dwelling unit and one additional person who does not reside at the home where
the occupation takes place.
         (e)   There shall be no display or stock in trade or commodities sold
except those that are produced on the premises.
         (f)   The use shall not involve the use of more than one-third of the
floor area of only one story.
         (g)   Any signage related to the home occupation shall not exceed one
square foot to be mounted at a location approved by Zoning Inspector. At the
Zoning Inspectors request, all signage related to home occupation shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for approval.
         (h)   Home occupations which provide a service shall not have more
than two customers (including those arriving and waiting for service) at any
one time.
         (i)   The storage of all equipment, machinery, supplies, materials,
files and the like, shall be stored completely within the residence (excluding
the garage or accessory buildings).
      (11)   Keeping of bees. The keeping of bees in residential areas is
permitted under the following conditions.
         (a)   The regulations of this section are established to permit the
keeping of bees in a manner that prevents nuisances to occupants of nearby
properties and prevents conditions that are unsanitary or unsafe.
         (b)   In order to have beekeeping privileges within the village, all
beekeepers are required to maintain and register their hives as set forth in
R.C. Chapter 909.
         (c)   All beekeepers are required to register with the village setting
forth the location of their hives and number of colonies of bees.
         (d)   Any lot used for beekeeping must have a minimum size of 10,000
square feet. There shall be no more than two hives established on any lot used
for beekeeping, except two additional temporary hives are allowed for hive
separation or new swarm establishment purposes. Such temporary hives shall be
removed from the property within two weeks.
         (e)   Hives shall be placed in the rear yard of the property and in no
case shall the hives be closer than 30 feet from a public or private street,
sidewalk or roadway. In no case shall the hives be closer than 25 feet to an
abutting property line.
         (f)   The front or entrance of a beehive shall not directly face
residences or adjoining property owners.
         (g)   A fresh water source shall be maintained within ten feet of each
hive a supply of water with a backflow prevention device which shall be
equipped with a float valve or similar device which assures an adequate
accessible and usable supply of water for the bees.
         (h)   The owner of the hive(s) must be a resident in a dwelling
located on the same lot on which the hive(s) are registered. Hives are only
permitted on lots with single-family residential units located on them.
         (i)   The maintenance of each colony shall meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Colonies shall be maintained in readily movable frame hives.
            2.   Each hive must conspicuously display the apiary identification
number assigned pursuant to R.C. Chapter 909 on no less than the base and the
box. The identification number shall be on a side that is visible without
moving or lifting of said hive.
            3.   Adequate space shall be maintained in the hive to prevent
overcrowding and swarming.
            4.   Colonies shall be re-queened following any swarming or
aggressive behavior or seized and destroyed without remuneration.
         (j)   A certificate or permit providing the privilege to keep bees
within the village shall be provided by the village to a beekeeper once it is
established that the necessary requirements outlined in this chapter are
satisfied.
         (k)   1.   Beekeeping privileges may be revoked from any property by
written notification to the property owner by the village. Revocation must be
done with cause, however, the cause need not to be the fault of the beekeeper,
nor be a factor that is under the control of the beekeeper. The village may
revoke beekeeping privileges for any condition or combination of circumstances
that jeopardizes, endangers or otherwise constitutes an actual, potential or
perceived menace to public health or safety. Once beekeeping privileges have
been revoked on a particular property, such privilege may be reestablished only
upon written request. Additionally, a permit or certificate may be revoked by
the village due to a failure to satisfy any of the requirements of this
chapter.
            2.   A perceived menace to public health may also include, but is
not limited to:
               a.   Written documentation over a medical doctor’s signature
certifying that the medical condition caused by beestings to a resident of an
abutting property would constitute a higher than normal health hazard will
constitute sufficient cause to withdraw beekeeping privileges from any specific
property; and
               b.   Abnormally aggressive behavior by bees defending their hive
beyond the property lines may constitute sufficient cause to withdraw
beekeeping privileges from any specific property.
         (l)   The village may revoke a beekeeper’s privilege to maintain hives
within the village by revoking the beekeeper’s permit or certificate if in
violation of this section. If such revocation occurs, the permit holder shall
have the right to appeal such decision to the BZA to determine whether cause
exists for revoking the beekeeping privileges, which appeal shall be filed
within 30 days of such revocation.
         (m)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may vary the regulations of this
section as they apply to a particular property if it determines that such
variance will be consistent with the stated purpose of this section.
      (12)   Keeping of chickens. The keeping of chickens may be permitted with
standards when compliant with the following regulations and any other
applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   The number of chickens per household shall be limited to the
following:
            1.   Under one-quarter acre: zero chickens;
            2.   One-quarter acre to one acre: three chickens;
            3.   One acre to three acres: 20 chickens; or
            4.   Three acres or more: up to a reasonable amount of chickens
given the totality of the circumstances.
         (b)   The keeping of roosters is prohibited in all lots less than five
acres.
         (c)   The keeping of chickens shall only be for the personal use of
the property owner or lessee thereof and his or her respective family, without
the payment of any fee.
         (d)   The chicken coop shall be considered an accessory structure and
the chicken coop and all associated structures (i.e. enclosure, hutch, pen and
run) shall be located in the rear yard. All coops and associated structures
related with the keeping of chickens on lots shall be set back a minimum of 50
feet from side and rear property lines. No coop and associated structures shall
exceed the height of the principal building.
         (e)   All coops and associated structures shall be screened from
neighboring properties and the road rights-of-way by either landscaping or
fencing that conforms to §
152.225.
         (f)   The chickens shall be properly housed in structures that are
maintained in safe and sanitary conditions.
         (g)   The chicken run shall be graveled or shall be moved to different
locations on the property periodically not less than once per month.
         (h)   Chicken manure and other refuse shall be removed from the coop
and associated structures and shall be properly and lawfully disposed or
composted no less than once per week.
         (i)   A NUISANCE shall be defined as loud and frequent or habitual
sounds or noxious odors from livestock that causes serious annoyance or
disturbance to other persons.
         (j)   All coops and associated structures shall be maintained in an
orderly fashion. In no instance shall the keeping of chickens be allowed to
become a nuisance or present a health concern.
         (k)   If the keeping of chickens and the associated structures or
activities are deemed to be a nuisance, the responsible party shall be subject
to §§
152.340 through
152.345.
      (13)   Keeping of domestic animals (excluding chickens). The keeping of
domestic animals, with the exception of goats, may be permitted with standards
when compliant with the following regulations and any other applicable sections
of this chapter.
         (a)   Domestic animals shall not be harbored on any lands in the R-
3 and B-1 Districts.
         (b)   Domestic animals shall not be kept on any lot with an area less
than two acres.
         (c)   There shall be a maximum of two domestic animals permitted on
any lot with two acres of lot area. One additional domestic animal may be
permitted for each additional one-half acre of land over two acres.
         (d)   There shall be a maximum of two goats permitted on any lot with
one acre of lot area. One additional goat may be permitted for each additional
one-half acre of land over the one acre.
         (e)   The keeping of domestic animals shall only be for the personal
use and enjoyment of the property owner or lessee thereof and his or her
respective family, without the payment of any fee.
         (f)   Riding academies and the keeping, training and otherwise
harboring of domestic animals for a fee, shall be permitted in business zoning
districts only.
         (g)   The animals shall be properly housed in structures that are
maintained in sanitary conditions.
         (h)   The keeping of exotic animals is prohibited.
         (i)   At a minimum, all permitted animals shall be confined within the
building setback lines of the premises. Fences and other similar structures
shall conform to §
152.225.
         (j)   Keeping of pigs, hogs or mink, whether harbored for agricultural
or any other purpose, is prohibited except when the building, yards and all
other confinements for said animals are set back a minimum of 300 feet from any
building used for human habitation or occupancy, other than the residence of
the owner, manager or caretaker of these animals, and at least 100 feet from
all lot lines, reservoirs, public ways, streets or roads. Keeping of horses,
fowl and other animals, except pigs, hogs and mink, whether harbored for
agricultural or any other purpose, is permitted only when the building, yards
and all other confinements for said animals are set back a minimum of 100 feet
from any building used for human habitation or occupancy, other than the
residence of the owner, manager or caretaker of these animals.
         (k)   A NUISANCE shall be defined as loud and frequent or habitual
sounds from livestock that cause a serious annoyance or disturbance to other
persons.
         (l)   In no instance shall the keeping of any animal be allowed to
become a nuisance or present a health concern.
         (m)   All buildings and structures, except fencing, associated with an
agricultural use on lots larger than one acre in area but smaller than five
acres shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any residential dwelling
unit and 50 feet from all lot lines. No building shall exceed the height of the
principal building.
      (14)   Outdoor dining. Outdoor cafés and food service areas may be
permitted as a conditional use when compliant with the following regulations
and any other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Outdoor dining areas shall be located along a sidewalk adjacent
to the principal building or between the principal building and parking areas.
Outdoor cafés and food service areas shall not be located in such a manner as
to require customers and employees to cross driveways or parking areas to go
between the café/food service areas and the principal building.
         (b)   Umbrellas and awnings that shelter diners from the elements
shall be secured so as not to create a hazard in windy conditions. No signage
shall be permitted on the umbrellas.
         (c)   Enclosing outdoor dining areas either by a permanent roof or to
expand the existing structure shall meet all the requirements of a building
within the applicable zoning district and shall require the issuance of a new
zoning certificate.
         (d)   Any roof designed to cover patrons, including roofs over areas
for waiting, smoking and the like shall be structurally attached to the
principal building and permanent in nature.
      (15)   Porches or decks. Porches and decks may be permitted with
standards when compliant with the following regulations and any other
applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Porches or decks that are enclosed (with screening or other
materials), have a roof, that are physically attached to the principal
structure or that extend more than three feet above the average grade shall
meet the setback requirements for principal buildings in the applicable zoning
district. See §
152.088(B).
         (b)   All other porches may extend into required setbacks in
accordance with §
152.088(A)(3)(a).
      (16)   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes may be permitted with standards
when compliant with the following regulations and any other applicable sections
of this chapter.
         (a)   Satellite dishes of one meter in diameter or less shall be
exempt from the provisions of this section and shall not require a zoning
certificate. To the maximum extent possible, the dish should be located in the
side or rear yard.
         (b)   Portable satellite dishes are prohibited in the village.
         (c)   Any satellite dish that is larger than one meter in diameter
shall be subject to the following standards.
            1.   The dish shall only be permitted in the rear yard and shall be
set back 15 feet from the principal dwelling and ten feet from all lot lines.
            2.   The maximum diameter of any dish shall be ten feet in a
residential zoning district and 12 feet in all other zoning districts.
            3.   The dish shall not exceed 15 feet in height as measured from
the natural grade level.
            4.   Fencing or landscaping shall be installed around the dish or
the subject property so as to fully screen the dish from view from adjacent
properties or street rights-of-way.
      (17)   Short-term rentals. The following shall apply to short-term
rentals:
         (a)   The principal building shall have been originally designed as a
single-family dwelling;
         (b)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each bedroom/
sleeping area used for guest lodging;
         (c)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the short-
term rental that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being
utilized in part for any purpose other than a dwelling unit. A short-term
rental shall be subject to the same general sign standards as all other signs
in residential districts as established in §§
152.295 through
152.306;
         (d)   Guests shall be permitted to reside at the facility for not
longer than two continuous weeks; and
         (e)   The owner of any property used as a short-term rental shall
comply with all other provisions of this code of ordinances as they relate to
short-term rentals.
      (18)   Small wind energy conservation systems. Small wind energy
conservation systems may be permitted as a conditional use when compliant with
the following regulations and any other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Systems that are five megawatts or larger in capacity are
regulated by the State Public Utilities Commission.
         (b)   Horizontal axis wind turbines (HAWT), vertical axis wind
turbines (VAWT) and blade tip power system turbines (BTPS) are permitted as
part of these regulations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.jpg]
         (c)   Small wind energy conversion systems shall not exceed 55 dbA,
measured five feet above ground level at the closest lot line. The sound level,
however, may be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/
or severe wind storms with sustained winds of 58 mph or 50 knots.
         (d)   All small wind energy conversion systems shall be equipped with
manual (electronic or mechanical) and automatic over-speed controls to limit
the blade rotation speed to within the design limits of the small wind energy
conversion system.
         (e)   No small wind energy conversion system shall be installed until
evidence has been given that the electrical utility company has been informed
of, and approved the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-
owned generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
         (f)   Tower colors shall be white, off-white, gray or neutral subdued
tones, such as earth tones of green or brown. Towers shall not be finished in
bright or vivid colors, nor shall the tower be used for advertising of any
kind.
         (g)   Small wind energy conversion systems shall not be artificially
lighted, except as required by the FAA.
         (h)   Small wind energy conversion systems shall not be climbable up
to 15 feet above the ground surface.
         (i)   The applicant or owner shall be responsible for acquiring all
necessary approvals from other applicable agencies, including, but not limited
to, the FAA.
         (j)   Any small wind energy conversion system that is not operated on
a functional basis for a period of six consecutive months shall be deemed
abandoned. The Zoning Inspector may order the repair or removal of said small
wind energy conversion system, in accordance with these provisions. The
applicant, owner or other person responsible for the facility shall repair or
remove the same within 60 days of receipt of notification by certified mail. If
said facility is not either operational or removed after 60 days, the village
may remove the system at the owner’s expense.
         (k)   The following standards apply to all HAWT and VAWT systems:
            1.   The installation of a HAWT or VAWT system shall require
approval as a conditional use;
            2.   Only one HAWT or VAWT system shall be permitted on a lot with
a minimum area of 100 acres;
            3.   The maximum tower height shall be 150 feet;
            4.   No portion of a turbine, including the rotor blades, shall be
located within 20 feet of the ground except that the generator for a VAWT may
be located on the ground at the base of the system;
            5.   No portion of a turbine may extend over parking areas,
driveways or sidewalks;
            6.   The maximum rotor diameter shall be 43 feet for HAWTs;
            7.   The maximum rotor blade length for VAWTs shall be 20 feet less
than the height of the tower in order to provide for 20 feet of turbine
clearance; and
            8.   All portions of the small wind energy system shall be set back
a minimum of 150 feet from all lot lines. Guy wire anchors and ground mounted
conversion equipment shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from all lot lines.
         (l)   The following standards apply to all BTPS systems:
            1.   The installation of a BTPS system shall require approval as a
conditional use;
            2.   The minimum lot area shall be one acre;
            3.   Any post or pole that the BTPS system is attached to must be
affixed to the principal building;
            4.   The tip of the rotor blades shall not extend more than ten
feet above the highest point of existing roofline;
            5.   No portion of a turbine, including the rotor blades, shall be
located within 20 feet of the ground if ground mounted. There are no clearance
requirements for roof-mounted systems;
            6.   No portion of a turbine may extend over parking areas,
driveways or sidewalks;
            7.   The maximum rotor diameter shall be six feet; and
            8.   All portions of a ground mounted BTPS system shall be set back
a minimum of 50 feet from all lot lines.
      (19)   Solar panels. Solar panels may be permitted with standards or as a
conditional use, depending on the application district, when compliant with the
following regulations and any other applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Freestanding solar panels shall require approval as a
conditional use and shall be limited to a maximum height of ten feet. Such
freestanding solar panels shall be located in the rear yard where they shall be
set back a minimum of 20 feet from the principal dwelling and 20 feet from all
lot lines.
         (b)   Roof-mounted solar panels on the front side of a roof facing a
street shall be flush-mounted to the roof.
         (c)   Roof-mounted solar panels that do not face a street may be
mounted flush or at an angle to the roof but shall not exceed 36 inches in
height from the roof plane as measured from the roof plane to the furthest
point of the solar panel.
      (20)   Swimming pools. Public or private swimming pools may be permitted
with standards when compliant with the following regulations and any other
applicable sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Any public or private in-ground or above ground swimming pool,
wading pool or other pool containing over one and one-half feet of water depth
shall be considered an accessory structure subject to these regulations.
         (b)   For private swimming pools in any residential district, the pool
shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from all lot lines and the principal
dwelling.
         (c)   Every pool subject to these provisions shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall with a minimum height of four feet. Such fence
shall be constructed so as to have no openings, holes or gaps larger than four
inches in any dimension, except for doors or gates, which shall be equipped
with suitable locking devices to prevent unauthorized intrusion. An accessory
building may be used in or as part of the enclosure.
         (d)   Above ground pools with vertical surfaces of at least four feet
in height shall not be required to have fences and gates except in areas where
access may be gained to the pool.
         (e)   The only pools that are permitted as accessory uses in a
business zoning district or shall be those that are accessory to an existing
residential dwelling or accessory to a permitted hotel or motel. Any other
pools shall be located inside the principal dwelling.
         (f)   The construction, plumbing and electrical requirements,
inspection and other safety facilities shall be regulated by the county codes.
         (g)   For the purpose of these regulations, ponds that are used
primarily for agricultural or domestic water supply, decoration, wildlife
preservation or fishing shall not be considered as structures or swimming
pools.
      (21)   Unenclosed patios. All unenclosed patios shall meet the required
setbacks of the applicable district unless otherwise permitted in §
152.088(A)(3).
(Prior Code, § 1137.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-23-10, passed
4-18-2023) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.211 TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of certain
temporary uses and structures of limited duration; provided that such uses and
structures do not negatively affect adjacent properties; and provided that such
uses or events are discontinued upon the expiration of a set time period.
Temporary uses and structures shall not involve the construction or alteration
of any permanent building or structure.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses and structures.
      (1)   The table below summarizes permitted temporary uses and structures
and any general or specific standards that apply. Temporary uses or structures
not listed in the table are prohibited in the village.
Temporary Uses and Structures
Temporary Uses  Certificate Required Additional Requirements
and Structures
Temporary Uses and Structures
Temporary Uses                     Certificate Required Additional Requirements
and Structures
Construction trailers              No                   152.211(D)(1)
Garage and estate (third-party)    No                   152.211(D)(2)
sales
Outdoor storage and display        Yes                  152.211(D)(3)
Portable storage units,
construction dumpsters and         No                   152.211(D)(4)
portable toilet facilities for
construction purposes
Sidewalk sales                     No                   152.211(D)(5)
Temporary special events           Yes                  152.211(D)(6)
Temporary structures for public or Yes                  152.211(D)(7)
institutional uses
 
      (2)   Temporary uses and structures that require a certificate shall be
required to obtain a zoning certificate.
   (C)   General standards applicable to all temporary uses and structures.
      (1)   All temporary uses and structures shall be reviewed in accordance
with this section and all other applicable sections of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   All temporary uses and structures shall:
         (a)   Not be detrimental to property or improvements in the
surrounding area or to the public health, safety or general welfare;
         (b)   Be compatible with the principal uses taking place on the site;
         (c)   Not have substantial adverse effects or noise impacts on nearby
residential neighborhoods;
         (d)   Not include permanent alterations to the site;
         (e)   Not maintain temporary signs associated with the use or
structure after the activity ends;
         (f)   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply to
a site or use on the site;
         (g)   Not interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use
located on the property; and
         (h)   Contain sufficient land area to allow the temporary use,
structure or special event to occur, as well as adequate land to accommodate
the parking and traffic movement.
      (3)   Temporary tents and seasonal covers are prohibited with the
exception that a temporary tent may be permitted as part of a special event.
   (D)   Use specific standards.
      (1)   Construction trailers.
         (a)   Construction trailers shall be located on the same site or in
the same development as the related construction.
         (b)   Construction trailers shall be used in conjunction with
development subject to a valid building and zoning certificate.
         (c)   Construction trailers shall be removed from the site upon
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         (d)   Construction trailers shall also be removed from the site if
construction is abandoned or halted for six or more consecutive months.
      (2)   Garage and estate (third-party) sales.
         (a)   Garage sales are permitted at any residential dwelling unit in
any zoning district.
         (b)   Even though a garage or an estate (third-party) sale does not
require a zoning certificate, or fee, the property owner where the sale shall
take place shall be required to provide written notification of the sale at
least 14 days before the sale to the Office Administrator at Village Hall so
that the village can review the application for the purposes of protecting the
safety of the general public through adequate access and traffic control.
         (c)   Garage and estate sales are permitted two times per calendar
year for up to seven consecutive days each sale.
      (3)   Outdoor storage and display.
         (a)   A site plan illustrating the location, size and other pertinent
information related to the outdoor storage and display area shall be submitted
as part of a site plan review and zoning certificate application.
         (b)   The site plan shall define the area which will occupy the area
to be used for temporary sales and shall be designed to provide adequate
passage for pedestrians, the handicapped, bicycles, onlookers and passersby and
there will be no blocking of ingress and egress, passageways, fire lanes,
driveways or parking spaces.
         (c)   There shall be no bulk storage permitted except in packaged
form.
         (d)   Materials shall not be stacked in piles or stacks in excess of
ten feet in height.
         (e)   The total area shall not be greater than 15% of the principal
building floor area and building setbacks shall be maintained.
         (f)   The site is to remain free of litter and debris and shall be
restored to its original condition upon expiration of the permit.
         (g)   The temporary permit is limited to a total of 180 days.
         (h)   Any violation of the temporary zoning certificate shall be
deemed a zoning violation and shall immediately cease and desist, subject to
applicable penalties.
      (4)   Portable storage units, construction dumpsters and portable toilet
facilities for construction purposes.
         (a)      Portable storage units shall only be permitted for the
following situations:
            1.   For storage at a non-residential construction site for a
period not to exceed 90 consecutive days;
            2.   When necessary to facilitate clean-up and/or restoration
activities resulting from a fire or natural disaster to a building or structure
for a period not to exceed 180 consecutive days;
            3.   When the occupant of the property is relocating for a period
not to exceed 30 consecutive days; or
            4.   For storage on any lot in a business district for a period not
to exceed 30 consecutive days up to two times per calendar year.
         (b)   Up to one construction dumpster and one portable toilet facility
shall be permitted during the construction of any lawful structure in any
zoning district; provided the dumpster and portable toilet facility are removed
upon completion of the improvements.
         (c)   In residential districts, any construction dumpster or portable
toilet facility shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from all adjacent lot
lines.
         (d)   Only one portable storage unit shall be permitted on a single
lot at any one time.
         (e)   Any portable storage unit, construction dumpster or portable
toilet facility unit must include a placard not to exceed one square foot in
area which is clearly visible and which includes the container identification
number (where applicable), the business that owns and is responsible for the
unit, dumpster or facility, and a phone number of such business.
         (f)   The size of a portable storage unit in a business or residential
district shall not exceed 1,024 cubic feet, measured by the exterior length,
width and height multiplied together.
         (g)   Portable storage units, construction dumpsters and portable
toilet facilities shall not be placed in the public road right-of-way and shall
not block sidewalks, fire lanes or bike paths.
         (h)   Storage of hazardous materials as defined under applicable
state, local and federal laws and regulations are prohibited.
         (i)   Portable storage units, construction dumpsters and portable
toilet facilities must be placed and kept on a hard surface at all times.
         (j)   No part or former part of a semi-trailer or trailer shall be
utilized as a portable storage unit or permanent accessory structure in any
zoning district. A trailer or semi-trailer with all wheels and tires and valid
license may be utilized as a portable storage unit, but shall conform to all
requirements for portable storage units.
         (k)   Portable storage units, construction dumpsters and portable
toilet facilities shall be located in the side or rear yard to the maximum
extent possible.
         (l)   Portable storage units, construction dumpsters and portable
toilet facilities shall not be connected to any utility.
      (5)   Sidewalk sales.
         (a)   Sidewalk sales are permitted for seven consecutive days in all
business districts.
         (b)   Up to two sidewalk sales are permitted for each business within
a single calendar year. Such sales shall not be within two months of another
sidewalk sale for the same business or property.
      (6)   Temporary special events.
         (a)   A temporary zoning certificate for temporary special events such
as festivals, circuses, concerts, tents and similar uses shall be valid for no
more than ten consecutive days; provided the applicant receives other
applicable permits from the County Building Department, the Franklin Township
Police Department and the Village Fire Department.
         (b)   Temporary tents for outdoor sales may be permitted for a 14-day
period two times in one calendar year. The use of a temporary tent shall
require review by the Zoning Inspector and the Fire Department as part of the
zoning certificate review. Temporary tents may also require a building permit
from the county.
         (c)   Outdoor weddings and similar private events are exempt from this
standard but organizers of such events are encouraged to notify the Zoning
Inspector to determine if special accommodations should be made to address
traffic and circulation. These private events are subject to all applicable
noise ordinances.
      (7)   Temporary structures for public or institutional uses. Temporary
structures serving educational institutions shall comply with the following
standards.
         (a)   Location.
            1.   The use shall be located to the side or rear of the principal
structure(s) and at least five feet from any other structure.
            2.   The use shall not be permitted within required off-street
parking, required open space areas or required landscaping areas.
         (b)   Standards.
            1.   Under skirting or other materials shall be used to prevent
unauthorized access underneath the structure.
            2.   Parking shall be provided for the temporary structure in
conformance with §§
152.275 through
152.282.
         (c)   Approval and duration. This use is permitted if approved by the
Zoning Inspector, and may remain on the site for no more than two years. This
period may be renewed for two additional uses, for good cause shown, upon
approval of a written request, submitted to the Zoning Inspector at least 30
days prior to the expiration of the zoning certificate. In no event, however,
shall such extensions allow the temporary structure to remain on the site for
more than five years.
(Prior Code, § 1137.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see 152.999
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.225 FENCING, WALLS, HEDGES AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Applicability. Fences, walls, retaining walls, hedges and other
similar structures may be permitted in all zoning districts in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   Zoning certificate required. The construction of fences, walls and
similar permanent structures shall require the issuance of a zoning
certificate. The planting of hedges shall not require a zoning certificate but
shall be done in a manner that will comply with the location and height
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Decorative fencing exemption. Small portions of fences, such as
decorative fencing used for landscaping, that are not longer than 20 feet in
length but which comply with the height, yard and maintenance requirements set
forth in this division (C), shall not require a zoning certificate.
   (D)   Snow fences. A snow fence or fence of similar type may be erected in
any yard during the period from November 1 to April 1 for the sole purpose of
preventing the drifting of snow on highways, driveways and sidewalks. Such
fence shall not otherwise be used at any time as a temporary or permanent fence
or enclosure. A zoning certificate shall not be required for a snow fence.
   (E)   Retaining walls.
      (1)   An embankment to be retained on any lot that exceeds 48 inches high
shall be benched so that no individual retaining wall exceeds a height of six
feet except where the Planning Commission determines that topography requires a
wall of greater height, and each bench is a minimum width of 36 inches.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.jpg]
      (2)   Retaining walls over 48 inches, measured from the top of the
footing to the top of the wall, are required to be designed and certified by a
registered professional engineer licensed in the state. A copy of the signed
construction drawing should be submitted with a zoning certificate application.
      (3)   Retaining walls shall be constructed as a decorative landscape
element with vegetated plantings that soften edges and create visual interest.
      (4)   Retaining walls shall not be designed or constructed to obstruct
the natural flow of water unless approved by any applicable agency having
jurisdiction (e.g., County Soil and Water Conservation District, Village
Engineer and the like).
      (5)   A retaining wall shall not be constructed to a height that exceeds
one foot above the highest finished grade.
      (6)   In reviewing an application for a retaining wall, the Zoning
Inspector may forward the application to the Village Engineer for review and
comment.
   (F)   Location and height standards.
      (1)   Front yards.
         (a)   Fencing and hedges in the front yard setback area shall not
exceed four feet in height.
         (b)   Hedges of any height may be planted in the front yard if they
are set back a distance equal to the minimum required front yard setback as
established in §
152.088(B).
         (c)   Solid masonry walls are permitted in the front yard; provided
the wall does not exceed a height of two feet above the finished grade and are
constructed of materials that are decorative in nature and not cement block.
         (d)   Fencing of woven wire chain link, wire stock fences or other
wire fences are prohibited within 20 feet of the street right-of-way.
         (e)   Barbed wire fencing is prohibited in the front yard.
         (f)   Fences in the front yard shall have uniform openings aggregating
at least 50% of their surface area when viewed from a perpendicular direction.
         (g)   All fencing, walls, hedges and similar structures shall be
subject to the sight clearance regulations of §
152.088(B)(5).
      (2)   Side and rear yards.
         (a)   Fences and walls located in the side or rear yards shall not
exceed a height of six feet.
         (b)   Informal plantings, trees and hedges may be taller than six feet
but shall be maintained and trimmed so as not to constitute a nuisance to
adjoining property owners.
   (G)   Measurement.
      (1)   The maximum fence or wall height shall be measured from the lowest
point of the finished grade within three feet on either side of the fence to
the top most portion of the fence.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.jpg]
      (2)   Fencing or walls should follow the natural contour of the land on
which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.jpg]
      (3)   A fence may be erected on top of a wall or retaining wall but the
combined height of the fence and wall or retaining wall shall not exceed the
heights specified within this section for a fence, wall or a retaining wall.
   (H)   Construction, maintenance and repair.
      (1)   No fence, wall or hedge shall be constructed and maintained so as
to be hazardous to existing or future neighboring uses.
      (2)   The smooth finished side of the fence or wall shall be the side of
the fence that faces outward from the lot or yard being fenced.
      (3)   When erected near a property or lot line, the entire fence and any
of its supporting structures or appurtenances shall be contained within the lot
or property of the person erecting or having erected said fence.
      (4)   All fences, walls and hedges shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 1141.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.226 STEEP SLOPE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of steep slope regulations is to control
disturbances of steep slope soils, to protect natural areas and features, and
to locate development areas that do not have severe environmental limitations.
This section intends to regulate disturbances on steep slopes in order to
protect life and property from hazards due to slope, erodible soils, unstable
soils, earth movement and other geologic and hydrologic hazards. Furthermore,
it is the intent of these standards to:
      (1)   Protect the steep slopes of the village because development on
steep slopes increases runoff, erosion, sedimentation and the potential for
slope destabilization;
      (2)   Undertake development in a manner that protects life and property
from hazards due to slope, unstable and erodible soils, earth movement and
other geologic and hydrologic hazards;
      (3)   Reduce potential for increased erosion, sedimentation and surface
runoff, and the resulting adverse impacts on water quality;
      (4)   Preserve the visual quality of steep slope areas, which are
valuable natural and economic resources; and
      (5)   Encourage innovative and imaginative building techniques to create
structures and site plans that are suited to sloped terrain.
   (B)   Determination of steep slopes.
      (1)   This determination and the regulations of this section refer to
existing (pre-development) site conditions that exist prior to any grading,
cutting, filling or other similar earthwork.
      (2)   Slopes shall be determined by dividing the vertical rise in
elevation by the horizontal run of the same slope and converting the result
into a percentage value.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, steep slopes shall be categorized
as follows.
         (a)   A steep slope area shall be any area where there exists a slope
of 18% or steeper over any 50 feet of horizontal distance.
         (b)   A severe slope area shall be any area where there exists a slope
of 30% or steeper over any 50 feet of horizontal distance.
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to make
determinations about the severity of a slope based on data available from the
county, the United States Geological Survey or surveys prepared by a registered
surveyor.
   (C)   Standards for development of steep slope areas.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum setback of 50 feet from the edge of any
steep slope area.
      (2)   There shall be no disturbance of any severe slope areas (30% or
steeper). There shall be a minimum setback of 100 feet from the edge of any
severe slope area for all structures and buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.jpg]
      (3)   All subdivisions shall demonstrate sensitivity to natural systems
and ecological features of the site, including steep slopes. To the greatest
extent possible, new roadways shall follow natural contours and care should be
taken to include areas of highest environmental significance as part of the
non-building areas of each lot and/or subdivision.
      (4)   Finished grades in disturbed areas shall not exceed a three to one
slope and construction of retaining walls shall be avoided. Retaining walls may
only be used when the applicant demonstrates that such walls are absolutely
necessary. Retaining walls shall be subject to the provisions of §
152.225.
      (5)   Evidence that adequate measures will be taken to prevent erosion
and sedimentation during and after construction shall be provided by the
applicant.
   (D)   Review of development on steep slopes.
      (1)   Existing natural topography may not undergo earthwork or any type
of cutting and filling to alter topographical site conditions prior to granting
formal zoning approval.
      (2)   Any application that meets the minimum setbacks established above
shall be subject to the applicable zoning certificate or site plan review
procedure.
      (3)   Where an application proposes to disturb land within the
established setbacks or construct buildings or structures on a steep slope area
or severe slope area, such application shall be subject to a conditional use
review pursuant to §
152.055.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit proposed site plans to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District for their review. As a condition for disturbing
steep slopes, evidence shall be provided that the site and any construction to
be done thereon have been reviewed by the County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
(Prior Code, § 1141.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.227 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this exterior lighting section is to regulate
outdoor lighting in order to reduce or prevent light pollution and to minimize
lighting impacts on surrounding properties. This means to the extent reasonably
possible, the reduction or prevention of glare and light trespass, the
conservation of energy and promotion of safety and security.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Generally. All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be subject to review
as part of this chapter unless specifically exempted.
      (2)   Lighting plan required.
         (a)   A photometric plan showing the following shall be submitted as
part of a zoning certificate or for a conditional use application:
            1.   The proposed intensity levels of the lighting throughout the
site indicating foot candle measurements;
            2.   The lighting levels for the proposed site and an area
extending a minimum of 30 feet onto adjacent properties;
            3.   The locations of each of the proposed lighting fixtures (wall
mounted and pole);
            4.   The minimum, maximum and average intensity/illumination for
the site;
            5.   Details of all proposed outdoor lighting fixtures indicating
manufacturer, model and style of the fixture. A graphic representation of the
fixture is required. The fixture lamp type (i.e. low-pressure sodium, metal
halide and the like) shall be indicated on the proposed plans;
            6.   The proposed height of the lighting fixtures;
            7.   The hours of use of the lighting fixtures; and
            8.   Any additional submittal requirements as may be determined by
the Zoning Inspector.
         (b)   A lighting plan shall not be required for single-family or two-
family dwellings.
      (3)   Exemptions.
         (a)   All exterior lighting fixtures producing light directly by the
combustion of fossil fuels, such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps, are exempt
from the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Holiday lighting shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
         (c)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the Police
Department, Fire Department, other emergency service vehicles and public
service vehicles, as well as all vehicular luminaries, shall be exempt from the
requirements of this section including flashing or blinking lights.
         (d)   Street lights shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
      (4)   Prohibited lights.
         (a)   Search lights, beacons, laser source lights or any similar high-
intensity or flashing lights are prohibited, except in emergencies by Police
Department and/or Fire Department personnel.
         (b)   No open lights, such as strings of light bulbs, shall be
permitted. This prohibition shall not include holiday lighting.
   (C)   General provisions applicable to all districts and development.
      (1)   Exterior lighting shall be installed in a manner to deflect from
adjacent residential developments.
      (2)   All exterior lighting for residential and non-residential uses
shall be located, screened or shielded so adjacent lots located in residential
districts or recorded subdivisions are not directly illuminated. Shielding may
also be required for high intensity light fixtures to prevent glare to adjacent
uses, public right-of-ways and drives. Perimeter lighting, when adjoining
residential districts or recorded subdivisions, shall be by shielded fixtures
to prevent light trespass onto adjacent properties.
      (3)   No exterior lighting shall be of such an intensity or color
distortion as to cause glare or to impair the vision of drivers, pedestrians or
adjacent properties. Shields and/or filters are required for light fixtures
with high intensity and glare potential.
   (D)   Lighting for residential uses.
      (1)   Lighting for single-family dwellings shall be exempt from most
provisions of this subchapter with the exception of the following.
         (a)   The prohibited lights established in §
152.227(B)(4) shall apply to lighting for residential uses.
         (b)   Residential lighting for single-family dwellings shall be
subject to the general provisions of §
152.227(C).
         (c)   For light fixtures that are not attached to the house or to an
accessory building, there shall be a maximum height of 12 feet from the
finished grade adjacent to the base of the light fixture to the top most point
of the fixture. The light bulb shall not produce more than 1,600 lumens.
      (2)   Lighting for non-residential uses in the CD, R-1, R-2 or R-
3 Districts shall be subject to the requirements of this subchapter unless
expressly exempted.
   (E)   Exterior lighting requirements.
      (1)   Type of fixtures.
         (a)   All light fixtures shall be full cut-off type fixtures except
for decorative light fixtures.
         (b)   Cutoff lighting may only be used for decorative purposes when
located adjacent to the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.jpg]
      (2)   Height of fixtures.
         (a)   In all districts, the maximum height of any non-cutoff light
fixture shall be 12 feet.
         (b)   All cut-off exterior lighting shall be designed, located and
mounted at heights pursuant to the table below.
 
Maximum Cut-Off Light Fixture Height
Zoning District                                              Maximum Height of
                                                             Light Fixture
B-1 or B-2                                                   18 feet
I-1                                                          30 feet
R-1, R-2 or R-3 (except for single-family dwellings, see §  15 feet
152.227(D))
 
 
         (c)   In no case shall the height of light fixtures exceed the maximum
permitted building height within the applicable zoning district.
         (d)   Lighting located under canopies shall be flush mounted or
recessed within the canopy.
         (e)   Height shall be measured from the finished grade adjacent to the
base of the light fixture to the top most point of the fixture.
      (3)   Illumination.
         (a)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and located to have the
following maximum illumination levels. The levels shall be measured at the
finished grade at the lot line as demonstrated by a lighting plan as follows.
            1.   The maximum illumination at a lot line that abuts a lot zoned
or used for residential purposes shall be 0.3 foot candles.
            2.   The maximum illumination at a lot line that abuts a business
zoned lot shall be 3.0 foot candles (vertical) and 5.0 foot candles
(horizontal).
            3.   The maximum illumination at a lot line for properties used for
outdoor sports and recreation shall be reviewed for compliance with regard to
the intent of these guidelines to minimize the impact of light trespass and
glare on all surrounding properties and public rights-of-way.
            4.   The illumination across any property shall be designed so as
to not create excessively dark spots that may create safety issues.
         (b)   All applicants are strongly encouraged to submit lighting plans
with components that reduce light pollution including, but not limited to,
automatic shut-off of fixtures, auto-dimming to adjust lighting based on
ambient lighting and the use of as little lighting as necessary without
creating safety issues.
      (4)   Modifications. Should any exterior light fixture or the type of
light source therein be changed after the permit has been issued, a change
request must be submitted to the Zoning Inspector for approval, together with
adequate information to assure compliance with this section, which must be
received prior to substitution.
(Prior Code, § 1141.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.228 MAILBOXES AND DRIVEWAY ENTRY STRUCTURES.
   Driveway entry structures, including decorative boulders and mailboxes,
shall be subject to the following standards.
   (A)   All driveway entry structures, excluding decorative boulders, shall
meet the following requirements.
      (1)   One structure is permitted on each side of a driveway entry
adjacent to a road with a minimum width clearance of 12 feet between
structures.
      (2)   Each structure shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the
road right-of-way and side lot lines.
      (3)   Each structure shall be limited to a maximum footprint of 12 feet
by 12 feet with a maximum height of five feet from the adjacent grade.
      (4)   Light fixtures that are incorporated into the driveway entry
structure shall not exceed a maximum height of eight feet above grade.
      (5)   A lighting fixture may be erected on top of a driveway entry
structure but the combined height of the light fixture and driveway entry
structure shall not exceed a height of eight feet with the driveway entry
structure maintaining a maximum height of five feet as specified above.
      (6)   Gates that extend across the driveway shall not exceed six feet in
height above grade and shall meet all other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Decorative boulders used near a driveway or along a street frontage
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the right-of-way and from all
side lot lines. A zoning certificate shall not be required.
   (C)   Due to the climate of the village and the need to be able to clear
roadways of snow, mailboxes shall not be installed within a masonry or
similarly permanent structure; absent written permission from the Village
Street Superintendent. Mailboxes should be installed in accordance with
regulations established by the U.S. Postal Service.
   (D)   A zoning certificate shall be required for any driveway structure that
requires the installation of a footer to ensure the safe location for the
purposes of snow removal.
(Prior Code, § 1141.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018; Ord. O-22-07, passed
3-15-2022)
LANDSCAPING STANDARDS
§ 152.240 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Promote and protect the interest of the public’s convenience, comfort,
prosperity or general welfare in accordance with §
152.001;
   (B)   Require buffering between non-compatible land uses to protect,
preserve and promote the character and value of surrounding neighborhoods; and
   (C)   Require reasonable landscaping that is beneficial to the residents and
businesses of the community.
(Prior Code, § 1145.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.241 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The development standards of this subchapter shall apply to new
property development and any collective substantial expansion of existing
structures, except for individual single-family dwellings and two-family
dwellings (duplexes), and parking lots of five spaces or smaller. SUBSTANTIAL
EXPANSION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES shall be defined as when the expansion of the
structure meets or exceeds 25% of the square footage of the existing building,
exclusive of the alteration or expansion. Exceptions to this expansion include:
      (1)   Section
152.245 shall apply to any size expansion of a structure where such expansion
will decrease the setback between the structure and a residential zoning
district; and
      (2)   Where there is no expansion of a structure but the vehicular use
area is expanded, then the standards of §
152.246 shall apply.
   (B)   The standards of this chapter shall not apply to development of
residential dwelling units on existing lots of record.
   (C)   The standards of §
152.246 shall apply in all cases where an existing parking area or lot is
reconstructed. If only a portion of the existing parking area or lot is
reconstructed, the standards shall apply to the portion that is being
reconstructed. Reconstruction shall not include general maintenance,
resurfacing (with no change in space layout or circulation) or sealing.
   (D)   Any landscaping areas used to meet the requirements of this chapter,
excluding paved areas, shall count as pervious surface when considering the
maximum impervious surface ratio standards of §
152.088.
   (E)   A landscaping plan shall be submitted with any application for a site
plan review or open space residential subdivision that demonstrates compliance
with this section. Additionally, landscaping plans may be required for a
variance or conditional use application to illustrate any proposed landscaping
and/or buffering that demonstrates compliance with the review criteria of the
application procedure.
(Prior Code, § 1145.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.242 GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   (A)   General location requirement. Landscaping shall be installed in
locations such that when mature, it does not obscure traffic signs or lights
nor obstruct access to fire hydrants nor interfere with adequate motorist sight
distance or overhead utility lines. Landscaping shall be subject to the sight
clearance requirements of §
152.088(B)(5).
   (B)   Existing landscape material.
      (1)   Unless otherwise noted, existing landscape material in healthy
condition can be used to satisfy the requirements of this subchapter in whole
or in part; provided that the existing landscape material meets the minimum
standards of this section.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall determine satisfaction of this
requirement.
   (C)   Planting season. Weather permitting, all required grading and
landscaping shall be completed within 30 days of all other construction. When
construction is completed on or after the first of November in a given year,
only mulch may be utilized in planting areas and complete landscaping
improvements may be installed by the end of May of the following year.
   (D)   Landscaping materials.
      (1)   In general, the proposed landscape materials should complement the
form of the existing trees and plantings. The type of shade or sun should be
considered in selecting plant materials.
      (2)   Existing vegetation shall be preserved as much as possible in
accordance with acceptable nursery industry standards.
      (3)   In addition to any other requirements for walls or fences
established in this subchapter, walls and fences may be utilized to meet the
requirements of this subchapter if they comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   When walls or fences are used to fulfill any buffering or
screening requirements, a detailed drawing shall be shown on the proposed plan;
         (b)   Where materials are not otherwise specified, walls and fences
shall be constructed of weather-proof materials. This includes pressure
treating or painting of lumber if it is not redwood or cedar, and using
aluminum or galvanized hardware; and
         (c)   Chain link fences with or without wooden or synthetic slat
material is prohibited.
      (4)   Plants used to comply with this subchapter shall be subject to the
following requirements.
         (a)   Deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper of at least two and
one-half inches diameter at breast height (DBH) conforming to acceptable
nursery industry procedures at the time of planting. If deciduous trees are to
be used for screening purposes, additional materials listed in this subchapter
shall be used to create a dense buffer.
         (b)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet in height at the
time of planting. Evergreen plantings shall be planted at a maximum distance of
20 feet on center to provide an effective buffer unless otherwise specified.
         (c)   Ornamental trees shall have a minimum height of five feet or a
minimum caliper of at least two and one-half inches DBH conforming to
acceptable nursery industry procedures at the time of planting.
         (d)   Shrubs and hedges shall be at least 36 inches in height at the
time of planting. All shrubs and hedges used to meet the screening requirement
in §
152.247 shall be designed to provide an effective screen of at least five feet
within a period of four years after planting.
         (e)   Grass shall be planted in species normally grown in permanent
lawns in the county. In swales or other areas subject to erosion, solid sod
shall be sown for immediate protection until complete coverage otherwise is
achieved. Grass sod shall be clean and free of weeds and noxious pests or
diseases.
         (f)   Once the minimum landscape requirements have been met, any size
plant may be installed on a lot to supplement the minimum requirements.
      (5)   Miscellaneous provisions shall be as follows.
         (a)   Artificial plants shall not be used to meet landscaping
requirements.
         (b)   The Zoning Inspector may maintain a list of prohibited trees and
plants that shall not be used in any landscaping required as part of this
subchapter.
         (c)   The prohibited trees and plants list only applies to landscaping
required to meet the standards of this chapter and any trees or plants located
in the right-of-way for all development in all districts.
         (d)   To prevent extensive destruction of landscaping from invasive
pests or disease, the village shall require a diversity in plant species in
accordance with the following requirements.
            1.   When fewer than 40 trees are required on a site, at least two
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions.
            2.   When 40 or more trees are required on a site, at least three
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions.
            3.   Required shrubs shall utilize the same species diversity
requirements.
            4.   Nothing in this division (D) shall be construed to prevent the
utilization of a larger number of different species than specified above.
   (E)   Meadows and natural stormwater management areas.
      (1)   The creation of meadows and natural stormwater management areas
(e.g., rain gardens and bioswales) may be used as a method of complying with
the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any meadow areas or natural stormwater management areas must be
identified on the applicable landscaping plan.
      (3)   Such areas shall not include disturbed lands that are reseeded with
grass or turf alone. The landscaping plan shall illustrate how any disturbed
areas will be vegetated to recreate a natural meadow or establish a natural
stormwater management area.
      (4)   The landscaping plan shall include a maintenance plan for any
meadows or natural stormwater management areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.jpg]
   (F)   Earth mounds.
      (1)   Slopes on earth mounds shall be no greater than three to one with a
generally flat crest and shall not interfere with the natural flow of surface
water.
      (2)   Earth mounds shall not be designed in a straight line but shall be
varied in height and horizontal location for a more natural appearance.
      (3)   Trees and shrubs may be planted in a random pattern on earth
mounds.
      (4)   Adequate ground cover shall be used and maintained to prevent
erosion of the earth mound.
      (5)   No mound wastewater treatment system or other similar on-site
wastewater treatment system shall count toward the buffering requirement.
(Prior Code, § 1145.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.243 MINIMUM LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   (A)   General site landscaping. In addition to any other specific
landscaping requirements defined elsewhere in this chapter, general landscaped
areas shall be provided on a lot where a principal building is constructed or
enlarged. This general landscaped area shall contain ornamental trees, shrubs,
decorative fences, hedges, earth mounds or similar features designed as
foundation plantings, or similar landscape features designed to complement the
building. The size of this general landscaped area(s) shall not be less than
one square foot of general landscaped area for each 100 square feet of gross
floor area of new principal building space.
   (B)   Minimum tree coverage. In addition to any other requirements for tree
planting or preservation that may be described elsewhere in this subchapter, a
minimum amount of tree coverage must be provided on a lot where a principal
building is constructed or enlarged. This minimum amount of tree coverage shall
be provided by new tree plantings, preservation of existing trees or a
combination thereof, at a ratio of not less than one tree for each 1,000 square
feet of gross floor area of new principal building space. Such trees shall meet
the minimum caliper standards established in this subchapter.
   (C)   Preservation of existing trees and wooded areas.
      (1)   As part of the review of any site plan submitted pursuant to this
chapter, the proposed location of buildings, off-street parking areas and other
disturbed surfaces shall be designed to minimize the removal of individual
trees having a trunk diameter of six inches DBH or greater.
      (2)   Proposed site plans shall also demonstrate consideration toward
placing structures and off-street parking areas to avoid the destruction of
heavily wooded areas or outstanding tree specimens.
      (3)   Trees and vegetation within a riparian corridor shall be protected
in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.198.
(Prior Code, § 1145.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.244 STREETSCAPE BUFFER.
   (A)   A streetscape buffer shall be required in all business districts and
for all non-residential development in residential districts.
   (B)   The streetscape buffer shall be provided along the full width of the
lot and shall be unoccupied, except for landscape treatments such as trees,
plantings, earth mounds, terraces, shrubs, permitted signs and driveways
(generally perpendicular to the right-of-way line).
   (C)   The minimum width of the streetscape buffer shall be 30 feet, measured
from the right-of-way into the property. Corner lots shall have a streetscape
buffer of the required width on both street frontages.
   (D)   Within this streetscape buffer, there shall be a minimum of one
deciduous or evergreen tree and five shrubs for every 50 feet of street
frontage.
   (E)   Areas not devoted to trees and shrubs shall be planted with grass,
ground cover or other live landscape treatment, excluding paving or gravel,
including land in the street right-of-way that is not occupied by street or
sidewalk pavement, or mulch.
   (F)   Landscaping materials used next to sidewalks or paths shall be of a
variety that is not prone to dropping fruit or nuts onto the sidewalk or path.
   (G)   Landscaping materials with briars or thorns should be avoided.
   (H)   Landscaping materials may be placed in any manner and do not have to
be equally spaced. Applicants are strongly encouraged to locate trees and
shrubs in a manner that will prevent damage from salt and other materials used
to melt snow from the roads.
(Prior Code, § 1145.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.245 BUFFERING BETWEEN LAND USES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Any development in a business district that is located on a
property adjacent to land in a residential district shall be subject to the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   Any development of a non-residential use in a residential zoning
district shall also be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Buffer location.
      (1)   Buffer areas shall be located along the full length of a side or
rear yard, between the proposed use and the adjacent residentially zoned
property.
      (2)   The buffer areas shall be placed on the property being developed or
constructed, regardless of ownership.
   (C)   Buffer requirements.
      (1)   The minimum width of the buffer area shall be ten feet running the
full length of the applicable side or rear yards. For buffering along the side
yard, the buffer shall begin, at a minimum, at the front yard building setback
line.
      (2)   No structure shall be permitted within a required buffer area other
than a wall, fence, mound or earth berm. Driveways may cross perpendicularly
across a buffer area, disturbing the least amount of buffer.
      (3)   The required buffer area shall consist of maintained living
vegetative material such as evergreen trees, shrubs, earth mounding or fencing
made of wood that results in 100% opacity, all year, to a height of six feet or
more within one year of planting. Fences shall not exceed a maximum height of
six feet.
(Prior Code, § 1145.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.246 LANDSCAPING FOR VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
   (A)   Interior landscaping.
      (1)   Any open parking area (including parking spaces and interior access
lanes, but excluding loading, unloading, and storage areas) that contains more
than 6,000 square feet of pavement area or 20 or more vehicular parking spaces
shall provide interior landscaping in addition to any other required perimeter
landscaping (see § 152.246(B)).
      (2)   Parking lots with more than six spaces in any zoning district shall
provide landscaping within each vehicular use area at a minimum ratio of 5% of
the gross area of the vehicular use area (including all drive and parking
aisles).
      (3)   Parking lots with 20 or more spaces in a business district shall
provide landscaping within each vehicular use area at a minimum ratio of 10% of
the gross area of the parking lot (including all drive and parking aisles).
      (4)   The use of depressed landscaping island, bioswales and rain gardens
are encouraged as a method of complying with these standards.
      (5)   Landscape islands shall be located at the end of each parking row
with a minimum size of 135 square feet for single loaded parking rows, and a
minimum size of 270 square feet for double loaded rows.
      (6)   No more than 15 spaces shall be located in a continuous row without
being interrupted by a landscaped island, unless the island is used for
stormwater infiltration. Such landscape islands shall be of the minimum size
established in division (A)(5) above.
      (7)   Landscape medians with a minimum width of ten feet shall be located
as to separate every four parallel rows of cars and shall run the full length
of the parking row.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.jpg]
      (8)   Landscaped islands or peninsulas shall be vegetated with grass or
similar plant material not to exceed two feet in height. For each 3,000 square
feet of open parking area, there shall be a minimum of one deciduous tree
placed in landscaped islands or peninsulas. Trees shall have a clear trunk of
at least five feet above the ground.
      (9)   The landscaped medians required in division (A)(7) above shall be
planted with one deciduous tree every 20 lineal feet.
      (10)   Landscaped areas that extend into parking areas from the perimeter
landscaping may count toward this requirement but only that area that extends
into the parking area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.jpg]
   (B)   Perimeter landscaping.
      (1)   When a vehicular use area is located within 20 feet of a side or
rear lot line, perimeter screening shall effectively conceal parking areas and
interior driveways from adjoining property with the use of earth mounds, a
planting strip, hedge or fence material for visual separation from adjoining
property.
      (2)   A planting strip at least five feet in width shall be located along
the perimeter of a parking area (along a side or rear lot line).
      (3)   Landscape materials shall be installed to provide a minimum of 50%
winter opacity and 70% summer opacity, to a height of four feet within four
years after installation.
(Prior Code, § 1145.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.247 SCREENING OF SERVICE STRUCTURES.
   Service structures shall be screened in all zoning districts. For the
purposes of this section, service structures shall include, but not be limited
to, loading docks, propane tanks, dumpsters, electrical transformers and other
equipment or elements providing service to a building or a site.
   (A)   Required screening shall include a continuous planting, hedge, fence
or similar feature that will enclose any service structure on all sides, unless
such structure must be frequently moved, in which case screening on all but one
side is required.
   (B)   Screening established with plant materials shall provide 75% opacity
within two years of planting. All other types of screening shall completely
screen service structures. If the screening is accomplished through a
structure, such structure shall be composed of materials similar to the
principal building.
   (C)   The minimum height of the screening material shall be one foot taller
than the height of the enclosed structure but shall not be required to exceed
ten feet in height.
   (D)   Whenever a service structure is located next to a building wall,
perimeter landscaping material, or off-street parking area landscaping material
such as walls or screening material may fulfill the screening requirement for
that side of the service structure if that wall or screening material is of an
average height sufficient to meet the height requirement set out in this
section.
   (E)   Whenever a dumpster or similar waste collection unit is designed to be
removed or emptied mechanically on a regular basis, a curb to contain the
placement of the unit is required.
(Prior Code, § 1145.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.248 MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All landscaping materials shall be installed in a sound, workmanship-
like manner and according to accepted, good construction and planting
procedures.
   (B)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the continued
proper maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them in a
relatively weed-free condition, clear of undesirable undergrowth and free from
refuse and debris at all times.
   (C)   All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one year
or by the next planting period, whichever comes first, while other defective
landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within three months.
Replacement plants shall conform to the standards that govern original
installation.
   (D)   Pruning, trimming or other suitable methods shall control all plant
growth in landscaped areas, so that plant materials do not interfere with
public utilities, restrict pedestrian or vehicular access, or otherwise
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 1145.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
OPEN SPACE STANDARDS
§ 152.260 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter addresses the character and design of those portions of a
development that are not occupied and do not have platted lots or streets and
that are reserved for parks, trails, landscaping and other common open space
uses. The standards of this subchapter apply regardless of whether or not the
land involved will be owned or be dedicated to the village, county, homeowners’
association or other agency, and regardless of whether or not such open space
will be open to the public or other residents of the development. This
subchapter also establishes ownership and minimum maintenance standards for
homeowner associations, property owner associations and non-residential
property owners related to open space.
(Prior Code, § 1149.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.261 APPLICABILITY AND DETERMINATION.
   The standards of this subchapter shall apply in cases where open space is
required to be set aside as part of the development requirement (e.g., open
space residential subdivision) or in cases where an applicant voluntarily
establishes open space as part of a development.
   (A)   Required areas to be placed in open space.
      (1)   In general, required open space shall be designed and located to
conserve significant natural features and historical and cultural elements
located on the site.
      (2)   Floodplains and floodways, as established by FEMA and administered
by the county, shall remain as open space areas.
      (3)   Retention or naturalized stormwater management areas that are
designed to be an amenity, as determined by the Zoning Inspector, can be
considered as open space, however, only 50% of the surface area of any water
body may be counted toward the open space requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   In the case of phased developments, open space shall be provided in
proportion with each developed phase.
      (5)   The following shall be required to be part of the preserved open
space when open space is required as part of a development:
         (a)   All steep slope areas as defined in §
152.226(B). If steep slope areas are not protected as part of the open space,
then additional development standards may apply as established in §
152.226; and
         (b)   Any natural resources, including riparian setback areas and
trees, which are required to be protected by the standards of this chapter.
   (B)   Areas not considered required open space. Areas that specifically
shall not be considered required open space include:
      (1)   Private and public roads, and associated rights-of-way;
      (2)   Public or private parking areas, access ways and driveways;
      (3)   Required setbacks between buildings, parking areas and project
boundaries;
      (4)   Required setbacks between buildings and streets;
      (5)   Required minimum spacing between buildings and parking areas;
      (6)   Private yards, including front, back and sides;
      (7)   Small, lineal strips of land generally located along lot lines that
do not protect natural resources (e.g., slopes, existing vegetation and the
like) and are maintained in a similar fashion as the adjacent yards;
      (8)   Land that is subject to preexisting conservation easements or
similar limitations on development; and
      (9)   Above ground buildings, pipes, apparatus and other equipment for
community or individuals, septic or sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § 1149.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.262 USE OF OPEN SPACE.
   Any area designated for required open space:
   (A)   Shall be preserved in its natural state with the exception that trails
and walkways may be established within the open space;
   (B)   Shall be designed and intended for the use of residents and/or general
public of the proposed development;
   (C)   May be utilized for farming when authorized in a conservation easement
or in a homeowners’ association’s covenants and restrictions;
   (D)   May be used for underground drainage fields for individual or
community septic systems or other underground components of on-site septic
systems. Other components of on-site sewage disposal septic systems that extend
above grade and are visible may not be within required open space. Easements
shall be required to enable the maintenance of these facilities;
   (E)   May be utilized as wet or dry stormwater management ponds or basins.
These ponds or basins may be located partially or entirely within the required
open space. Easements shall be required to enable the maintenance of these
facilities; and
   (F)   May be used as active recreation areas. These active recreation areas
shall be located in areas with the least impact on natural amenities and
wildlife habitats, of a useable size and shape for the intended purpose, and
limited to 20% of the total acreage devoted to required open space.
(Prior Code, § 1149.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.263 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OPEN SPACE.
   Land set aside as open space shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   All areas of open space shall be accessible to residents or users of
the development by providing at least 15 feet of frontage on a public road, or
in the case of a non-residential development, 15 feet of frontage on an
internal access drive.
   (B)   Areas of open space in residential subdivisions (of any type) shall be
no less than 10,000 square feet in size.
   (C)   Where appropriate, open space should be arranged in order to provide
connections to existing or future open space areas, trails or similar features
on adjoining parcels.
   (D)   Wherever feasible, areas of open space should be contiguous, thereby
eliminating small, isolated pockets of open space.
(Prior Code, § 1149.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.264 PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Reclamation of disturbed open space. Any required land areas
designated for use as open space that are disturbed during construction or
otherwise not preserved in its natural state, shall be landscaped with non-
invasive vegetation that appeared in those respective areas prior to
construction or with other native vegetation. The planting of invasive plant
species is prohibited.
   (B)   Future subdivision and development of open space. All required open
space shall be restricted from further subdivision or development by deed
restriction, conservation easement or other agreement in a form acceptable to
the village and duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder. Subject to
permanent restrictions as set forth above, required open space in an open space
residential subdivision shall be owned by a homeowners’ association, the
village (with its consent), a land trust or other conservation organization
recognized by the village, or by a similar entity. Required open space may be
held by the individual members of a homeowners’ association as tenants-in-
common or may be held in common ownership by a homeowners’ association,
community association or other similar legal entity.
   (C)   Conservation easements. With the permission of the village, the owner
(s) of required open space may, in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the state statutes, grant or transfer a conservation easement to any entity
described in the state statutes; provided that the entity and the provisions of
the conservation easements are acceptable to the village. When a deed
restriction is proposed as the method of restricting further subdivision of
land designated as open space, the village shall be named as a party to such
deed restrictions with approval authority over any changes thereto. The
conveyance must contain appropriate provision for assignment of the
conservation easement to another entity authorized to hold conservation
easements under the state statutes, in the event that the original grantee
becomes unwilling or unable to ensure compliance with the provisions of the
conservation easement.
   (D)   Homeowners’ associations. The following shall apply where a
homeowners’ association will be established to maintain any open space or other
common areas as required by this subchapter:
      (1)   A homeowners’ association shall be established to permanently
maintain all open space, common areas and conservation easements related to the
open space;
      (2)   All homeowners’ association agreements shall be submitted for
approval as part of a zoning certificate or conditional use application, as
applicable. Copies of the proposed covenants, articles of incorporation and
bylaws of the association shall be submitted with said agreements. No set of
proposed covenants, articles of incorporation or bylaws of a homeowners’
association shall permit the abrogation of any duties set forth in this
section; and
      (3)   All homeowners’ associations shall guarantee maintenance of all
open space and common areas within the boundaries of the development. In the
event of a failure to maintain such open space or common areas, the village may
do any of the following.
         (a)   If the open space or common area is owned by the village,
village approved land trust or other qualified organization, county, state or
park district, the village may remedy the failure to maintain at its own cost
and seek reimbursement from the homeowner’s association, or seek to enforce the
homeowner’s association’s duty to maintain through an injunction or any other
civil remedy.
         (b)   If the open space or common area exists pursuant to a
conservation easement in which the village is a party to such easement, the
village may seek to enforce the terms of the conservation easement as provided
in division (C) above.
         (c)   If the open space or common area is owned jointly or in common
by the owners of the building lots, or by any other owner of the property to be
maintained, the village may seek to enforce the associations’ non-performance
of its obligations and duties through an injunction or any other civil remedy.
(Prior Code, § 1149.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
PARKING, LOADING AND CIRCULATION STANDARDS
§ 152.275 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these parking, loading and circulation requirements is:
   (A)   To relieve congestion on the streets by requiring that parking be
provided on property and off streets in relation to the parking demand
generated by the land use of each property;
   (B)   To promote safety and convenience for people by requiring that parking
and loading areas, and associated driveways, be located and constructed
according to good standards for visibility and accessibility; and
   (C)   To protect the light, air, visual amenities and values of residential
areas by the visual screening of large parking and loading areas.
(Prior Code, § 1153.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.276 APPLICABILITY.
   Unless otherwise specified, the requirements of this subchapter shall apply
to the following:
   (A)   A zoning certificate application for the construction of a new
principal building in all zoning districts;
   (B)   The alteration, expansion or enlargement of any use that would require
a change in parking, loading or vehicle stacking spaces as required in this
subchapter; or
   (C)   The alteration, expansion or enlargement of any use that has an
existing non-conforming parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 1153.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.277 BICYCLE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Applicants are required to provide bicycle racks and facilities on
non-residential properties including business and public uses.
   (B)   Bicycle parking shall be provided at the level of one for every ten
automobile parking spaces, with a minimum of two spaces and a maximum of 20
spaces. No bicycle parking is required where there is less than ten automobile
parking spaces required.
(Prior Code, § 1153.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.278 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Rules for computing parking spaces.
      (1)   The following rules shall apply when computing parking spaces.
         (a)   Multiple uses. Unless otherwise noted or approved, off-street
parking areas serving more than one use shall provide parking in an amount
equal to the combined total of the requirements for each use.
         (b)   Fractions. When a measurement of the number of required spaces
results in a fractional number, any fraction of one-half or less shall be
rounded down to the next lower whole number and any fraction of more than one-
half shall be rounded up to the next higher whole number.
         (c)   Area measurements.
            1.   Unless otherwise specifically noted, all square footage-based
parking standards shall be computed on the basis of gross floor area of all
floors in a non-residential building.
            2.   Up to 15% of the gross floor area may be excluded from the
above calculation if the area is used for storage, loading, unloading or for
mechanical equipment.
         (d)   Occupancy or capacity based standards.
            1.   For the purpose of computing parking requirements based on
employees, students, residents or occupants, calculations shall be based on the
largest number of persons working on a single shift, the maximum enrollment, or
the maximum occupant load capacity as defined by the Ohio Building Code,
whichever is applicable, and whichever results in a greater number of parking
spaces.
            2.   In the case of benches, pews and similar seating
accommodations, each 18 inches thereof shall be counted as one seat for the
purpose of determining the parking requirements.
         (e)   Unlisted uses.
            1.   Upon receiving an application for a use not specifically
listed in the parking schedule below, the Zoning Inspector shall apply the
parking standard specified for the listed use that is deemed most similar to
the proposed use in regards to use, size and intensity of use.
            2.   If the Zoning Inspector determines that there is no listed use
similar to the proposed use, intensity or size, the Zoning Inspector may refer
to the estimates of parking demand based on recommendations of the Institute of
Traffic Engineers (ITE) in Trip Generation or the American Planning
Association’s (APA) parking manual.
   (B)   Required number of spaces.
      (1)   The table set forth below defines the number of parking spaces
required for each use within the village.
      (2)   For all uses except single-family and two-family dwellings, the
total number of parking spaces required in table set forth below may be reduced
by 10%.
      (3)   The total number of spaces required in the table set forth below
may be reduced up to a maximum of 50% by utilizing the alternative parking
options in division (E) below.
      (4)   The Planning Commission has the authority to be more or less
restrictive in the required amount of parking spaces per their review.
Number of Parking Spaces Required
Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Number of Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Number of Parking Spaces Required
Commercial and office uses
                                       1 space per 700 square feet of sales
Automotive service (minor)             floor area plus 1 space for each 3
                                       employees
Banks and financial institutions       1 space per 400 square feet of floor
                                       area
Bed and breakfast establishments       1 space per guestroom plus two spaces
                                       for the permanent dwelling unit
Commercial entertainment or recreation 1 space per 4 persons at maximum
use (indoors)                          capacity
Day care centers (adult or child)      1 space per 500 square feet of floor
                                       area
Funeral homes                          4 spaces per 300 square feet of floor
                                       area
Hotels and motels                      5 spaces total plus 1 space per sleeping
                                       room
Mixed use development                  The cumulative parking based on the
                                       proposed uses
Offices; general, government or other  1 space per 400 square feet of floor
types                                  area minimum; 1 space per 300 square
                                       feet of floor area maximum
Offices; medical or dental             1 space per 300 square feet of floor
                                       area
                                       6 spaces per 1,000 square feet or 2
Personal service establishments        spaces per station/chair, whichever is
                                       greater
                                       1 space per 5,000 square feet of land
Private recreational use (outdoors)    area or 1 space per three persons at
                                       maximum capacity, whichever is greater
                                       1 space per employee (based on the
Research and development facilities    largest number of employees on one
                                       shift) plus 1 space per each vehicle
                                       used in the business
Restaurants and taverns                1 space for every 2 seats at maximum
                                       capacity
                                       1 space per 350 square feet of floor
Retail and service commercial uses,    area up to 20,000 square feet then 1
sales offices and showrooms            space per 400 square feet of floor area
                                       thereafter
Theaters and assembly halls            1 space per each 3 seats at maximum
                                       occupancy
Veterinarian offices (no boarding)     1 space per 350 square feet
Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Number of Parking Spaces Required
Public and institutional uses
Auditorium, stadium and similar uses    1 space for each 4 seats based on
                                        maximum seating capacity
                                        1 space per each 3 seats in the
Churches and places of worship          sanctuary, based on maximum seating
                                        occupancy
Community centers                       1 space per 250 square feet of floor
                                        area
Cultural institutions                   1 space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        1.5 spaces per classroom, library,
                                        lecture hall and cafeteria plus 1 space
Educational institutions                per three fixed seats of public
                                        assembly areas; high schools shall have
                                        an additional 1 space per five students
                                        at maximum capacity
                                        2 spaces per acre unless additional
Parks                                   spaces are required based upon the
                                        facilities included, if listed
                                        separately
Residential uses
All dwelling unit types                 2 spaces per unit
Skilled nursing or personal care
facilities, adult group homes, small or 1 space per each 3 beds or 1 per 5
large residential facilities and all    residents, whichever is greater
other residential uses
 
   (C)   Parking requirements for physically disabled. Applicants shall provide
parking spaces for the physically disabled as required by the Ohio Building
Code and shall include all necessary markings, striping and signage.
   (D)   Design standards for off-street parking.
      (1)   Location of parking spaces.
         (a)   Parking areas shall be treated to minimize the visual impact of
parked cars as viewed from the public right-of-way and adjacent properties
through the use of plantings and earth berms.
         (b)   1.   Parking space in all business district areas should occupy
the rear yard of the property.
            2.   When parking spaces are unable to occupy the rear yard of the
property and are located in the front yard, there shall be a minimum ten feet
from the road right-of-way landscaped area as established in §§
152.240 through 252.248.
         (c)   Parking spaces in the residential districts shall not occupy any
part of any required front or side yard areas.
      (2)   Minimum dimensions of off-street parking spaces. Parking spaces and
driveway aisles shall have minimum rectangular dimensions of not less than the
following:
         (a)   Parking stalls shall conform to the minimum standards set forth
below; or
         (b)   Any parking space adjoining a landscaped area of the parking lot
may include a two-foot overhang into the landscaped area as part of the
required parking stall length; provided curbing or well-maintained wheel stops
are used to prevent damage to landscaped areas.
 
Parking Area Dimensions
Angle of  One-Way Maneuvering Aisle  Two-Way Maneuvering Aisle  Parking Stall Width  Parking Stall Length
Parking   Width (Feet) “A”       Width (Feet) “A”       (Feet) “B”       (Feet) “C”
(Degrees)
0 -       12                         20                         9                    23
parallel
30 - 53   14                         20                         9                    18
54 - 75   19                         21                         9                    18
76 - 90   22                         24                         9                    18
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-88.jpg]
 
      (3)   Access to off-street parking spaces.
         (a)   Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings,
any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any vehicle leaving or
entering the parking area from or into a public or private street shall be
traveling in a forward motion.
         (b)   The entrances and exits of the parking area shall be clearly
marked and parking areas having more than one aisle or driveway shall have
appropriate arrows and striping on the pavement to indicate traffic direction.
      (4)   Wheel stops.
         (a)   Curbs or wheel stops that are at least four inches high and four
inches deep shall be provided for parking spaces located adjacent to walkways
and sidewalks to protect pedestrians.
         (b)   Continuous curbing is discouraged but if curbing is used, it
should be cut curbing or scissor curbing to allow for the passage of
stormwater.
         (c)   Where provided, wheel stops or curbs shall be placed to allow
for two feet of vehicle overhang area within the dimension of the parking
space. In cases where the overhang will be over a landscaped area, the parking
stall length may be reduced by two feet.
         (d)   Where provided, wheel stops and curbs should be designed to
allow for snow removal and access to snow storage areas, including on
landscaped islands and adjacent buffers.
   (E)   Shared or off-site parking. A portion of the required parking spaces
may be located on an adjacent or nearby property if the parking area complies
with the following standards.
      (1)   Shared parking is encouraged and permitted if the multiple uses
that the shared parking will benefit can cooperatively establish and operate
the facilities.
      (2)   Off-site parking shall not be used to satisfy the off-street
parking standards for residential uses.
      (3)   Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities
shall not be located in an off-site parking area.
      (4)   Shared or off-site parking shall not be permitted on a vacant lot
in a residential zoning district unless permitted by the Planning Commission as
part of a conditional use review.
      (5)   Shared or off-site parking areas shall adhere to the regulations of
the same or a more intensive zoning classification than that required for the
use served.
      (6)   In the event that a shared or off-site parking area is not under
the same ownership as the principal use served, a written parking agreement
shall be required and must be approved by the Village Solicitor.
      (7)   No shared or off-site parking space shall be located more than 800
feet from the primary entrance of the use served, measured along the shortest
legal, practical walking route. This route may include crossing a right-of-way
provided it uses a legal crosswalk.
      (8)   The applicant shall have the burden of proof for reduction of the
total number of parking spaces and shall document and submit information
substantiating their request. Shared or off-site parking may be approved if it
complies with the following standards.
         (a)   Evidence shall be submitted by the parties operating the shared
parking area, to the satisfaction of the Zoning Inspector, documenting the
nature of uses and the times when the individual uses will operate so as to
demonstrate the lack of potential conflict between the use of the parking
spaces.
         (b)   Any change in use of the activities served by a shared or off-
site parking area will be deemed an amendment to the shared or off-site parking
area plan and will require Planning Commission review and approval.
         (c)   All shared or off-site parking plans and agreements shall be
recorded with the Village Office Administrator prior to any zoning certificate
being issued.
(Prior Code, § 1153.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.279 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every building used for non-residential purposes that customarily receives
or distributes goods by motor vehicle shall provide space on the premises for
loading purposes on the basis of the following regulations.
   (A)   Generally. For buildings, or parts thereof, that exceed 10,000 square
feet of gross floor area, there shall be provided and maintained, on the same
lot with such building, at least one off-street loading space plus one
additional loading space for every additional 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   General design standards. Every loading space shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards and requirements
set forth in this division (B).
      (1)   Location of required loading spaces.
         (a)   Loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building
or structure to which they serve. No loading space shall be located in any
required front yard, nor shall it permit any vehicle to extend into any front
yard or across any lot lines of a more restrictive district while the vehicle
is being loaded or unloaded.
         (b)   Loading spaces shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any
lot line in a residential district unless wholly within a completely enclosed
building or unless enclosed on all sides by a wall or uniformly painted board
fence not less than six feet in height.
         (c)   In all other cases, loading spaces shall be set back a minimum
of ten feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Dimensions. No required loading space shall be less than 12 feet in
width or 25 feet in length or have a vertical clearance of less than 14 feet.
      (3)   Access.
         (a)   Loading spaces shall be designed and arranged to provide access
to a street or alley in a manner that will create the least possible
interference with traffic movement and parking lot circulation. The Zoning
Inspector shall approve access to and from loading spaces.
         (b)   A site plan review application shall include a turning movement
diagram illustrating access to the loading spaces.
         (c)   No part of any truck or van that is being loaded or unloaded may
extend into the right-of-way of a public thoroughfare.
         (d)   Loading spaces shall be designed with sufficient apron area to
accommodate truck-turning movements and to prevent backing of trucks onto any
street right-of-way.
      (4)   Screening.
         (a)   All operations, materials and vehicles within any loading space
that are visible from a public street or from any residential use shall be
screened.
         (b)   The screening material shall be at least six feet in height and
100% opaque and shall satisfy the buffer requirements of the most restrictive
adjacent district.
(Prior Code, § 1153.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.280 VEHICLE STACKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Where drive-through facilities are permitted, vehicle stacking spaces shall
be provided according to this section.
   (A)   Minimum number of stacking spaces. The number of required stacking
spaces shall be provided as established below.
 
Activity                     Minimum Stacking Spaces (Per Measured From (and
                             Lane)                        Including)
Minimum Vehicle Stacking Space Requirements
Financial institutions or
automated teller machine     2 per window or lane         Teller or window
(ATM)
Fuel of gasoline pump island 21                           Pump island
Other                        As determined by the Zoning Inspector2
Restaurant                   3                            First pick-up window
Notes:
1   For each pump, the space at the pump shall count as one space; one
additional stacking space shall be required for each pump
2   Any other use shall be required to document proof that the provided number
and location of stacking spaces are adequate to meet the purpose of this
section
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-90.jpg]
   (B)   Design and layout.
      (1)   Stacking lane location.
         (a)   Stacking lanes shall not be located between the building and a
street, and may not be located in a required front yard.
         (b)   Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of ten feet by 20 feet in
size.
         (c)   Stacking spaces may not impede on- or off-site traffic movements
or movements in or out of off-street parking spaces (see image above). Such
spaces shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from any right-of-way.
         (d)   Stacking spaces shall be separated from other internal driveways
by surface markings or raised medians.
      (2)   All drive-up/drive-through facilities shall provide an escape lane,
which allows other vehicles to pass those waiting to be served.
      (3)   Fuel pump spaces can count toward the stacking space requirement.
      (4)   These stacking space requirements shall be in addition to the off-
street parking space requirements.
      (5)   When adjacent to a residential zoning district, any lot in a
recorded residential subdivision, or any lot used for residential purposes,
stacking spaces shall be required to be located on sides of the lot opposite
the adjacent residential use.
      (6)   All vehicular entrances or exits and all stacking spaces shall be
set back a minimum of 200 feet from any intersections of a street under county
or state authority.
(Prior Code, § 1153.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.281 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ALL VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
   All parking, loading and vehicle stacking areas shall meet the requirements
of this section.
   (A)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All vehicular use areas shall be maintained free from litter, junk
or rubbish.
      (2)   All adjacent sidewalks shall be kept free from dirt, ice, sleet and
snow and in a safe condition for use by pedestrians.
      (3)   All signs, markers or any other methods used to indicate direction
of traffic movement and location of parking and/or loading spaces shall be
maintained in a neat and legible condition.
      (4)   The owner shall maintain all paved surfaces in a smooth and dust-
free condition and repair any disintegration of the surface by patching or
resealing when such disintegration takes place. Such maintenance shall be at
the owner’s own expense.
   (B)   Storage. The storage of a vehicle or utility trailer for more than
seven continuous days, for more than four periods per year, in a vehicular use
area for a non-residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Landscaping. Landscaping for vehicular use areas shall be as
established in §§
152.240 through
152.248.
   (D)   Fire Code. All vehicular use areas shall conform to all requirements
set forth in the Fire Code as adopted by the village and as approved by the
Fire Department.
   (E)   Drainage. All vehicular use areas shall be graded, drained and
provided with adequate drainage and stormwater management facilities so that
the adjacent properties and rights-of-way, including sidewalks, are not subject
to flooding by water run-off from the proposed vehicular use areas.
   (F)   Other uses within required vehicular use areas. No vehicle repair work
or service of any kind, except emergency repairs, shall be permitted in or
associated with any vehicular use area. Outdoor display, sales or storage of
any merchandise within any required vehicular use area are prohibited unless
otherwise specifically permitted by this chapter.
   (G)   Surfacing for areas serving non-residential uses.
      (1)   All vehicular use areas shall be graded and paved with an asphalt
or concrete surface unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Vehicular use areas may be surfaced with up to 100% of porous
pavement (excluding gravel) or up to 25% of structural lawn. Porous pavement
and structural lawns are not considered impervious surfaces for the purpose of
calculating the maximum impervious surface ratio standards established in §
152.088(B)(3).
   (H)   Lighting. All lighting within a vehicular use area shall be subject to
the standards in §
152.227.
   (I)   Striping. The individual parking spaces and loading spaces shall be
striped according to the approved layout of the vehicular use area.
(Prior Code, § 1153.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.282 SIDEWALK CONNECTIONS TO A RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The following shall apply to all non-residential developments and
expansions.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk exists in a public right-of-way adjacent to the
property subject to the application, or is required to be constructed as part
of the development approval, a pedestrian connection shall be constructed from
the building to the sidewalk.
   (B)   The pedestrian connection shall be a concrete path with a minimum
width of six feet and shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
the Village Engineer’s standards.
   (C)   The sidewalk may be created as part of a driveway; provided that it is
delineated with a minimum of a painted line and the portion utilized for
vehicular traffic is not reduced from the minimum width requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1153.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
SIGNAGE STANDARDS
§ 152.295 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Permit the effective use of signs as a means of communication for
businesses, organizations and individuals in the village;
   (B)   Maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment, including viewsheds,
and the village’s ability to attract sources of economic development and
growth;
   (C)   Provide a means of way-finding in the community, thus reducing traffic
confusion and congestion;
   (D)   Provide for adequate business identification, advertising and
communication;
   (E)   Prohibit signs of such excessive size and number that they obscure one
another to the detriment of the economic and social well-being of the village;
   (F)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the public by minimizing the
hazards to pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
   (G)   Differentiate among those signs that, because of their location, may
distract drivers on public streets and those that may provide information to
them while they remain in their cars but out of active traffic;
   (H)   Minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and
private property; and
   (I)   Prohibit signs with commercial messages in residential zoning
districts and when those commercial messages relate to lawful commercial
activities conducted on properties within such districts.
(Prior Code, § 1157.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.296 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, this subchapter shall apply to any sign, in
any zoning district, that is visible from the public right-of-way or from
property other than the property on which the sign is located; signs located
entirely within buildings or other structures and/or otherwise not visible from
the public right-of-way or from property other than the property on which the
sign is located are exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, all signs and structural
changes to existing signs shall require a sign permit and a payment of fees. A
sign permit and payment of fees shall also be required for the changing of a
sign panel even if there is no structure change, or the changing of copy when a
sign is painted or otherwise printed on a structure. No sign permit is required
for the general maintenance of a sign or changing the copy of a changeable copy
sign.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided, all signs, except temporary signs permitted
under §
152.304, that are to be erected, placed, established, moved, altered or
remodeled, and otherwise permitted anywhere in the village, shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation to the Zoning
Inspector as part of the sign permit review process. Minor repairs that do not
involve a panel change or structural change shall not be subject to review by
the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1157.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.297 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to erect, place,
establish, move, alter, remodel or maintain a sign in the village except in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   All wiring, fittings and materials used in the construction,
connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall meet all of
the requirements of all applicable building and electrical codes.
   (C)   No sign of any classification shall be installed, erected or attached
to a structure in any form, shape or manner that is in violation of any
applicable building and fire codes.
(Prior Code, § 1157.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.298 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height.
   (A)   Pole mounted signs. The sign area shall be computed by means of the
smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof that
encompasses the extreme limits of the background panel, cabinet or surface on
which or where the sign copy is distinctively painted, textured, lighted or
constructed to serve as the background for the sign copy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-92.jpg]
   (B)   Ground mounted signs.
      (1)   The sign area shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof that encompasses the extreme
limits of the background panel, cabinet or surface on which or where the sign
copy is distinctively painted, textured, lighted or constructed to serve as the
background for the sign copy.
      (2)   The area of the supporting structure or framework shall be computed
by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination
thereof that encompasses the extreme limits of the supporting structure or
framework outside of the sign area as computed in accordance with division (B)
(1) above.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-94.jpg]
   (C)   All other signs.
      (1)   For sign copy mounted or painted on a background panel, cabinet or
surface distinctively painted, textured, lighted or constructed to serve as the
background for the sign copy, the sign area shall be computed by means of the
smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof that
encompasses the extreme limits of the background panel, cabinet or surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-96.jpg]
      (2)   For sign copy where individual letters or elements are mounted or
painted on a building façade where there is no background panel, cabinet or
surface distinctively painted, textured, lighted or constructed to serve as the
background for the sign copy, the sign area shall be computed by means of the
combination of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination
thereof that encloses all the letters or elements associated with the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33f938d1a7cf1c2bced0b56c187aae54ea894254/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.jpg]
   (D)   Multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign with more than one face
(multi-faced signs) shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign
faces visible from any one point.
   (E)   Identical signs back to back. When two identical sign faces are placed
back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any one point at the
same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are
not more than 24 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
   (F)   Height of sign. The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance
from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached
component of the sign.
   (G)   Street frontage. When calculating street frontage, only the street
frontage that lies in the incorporated area of the village shall be used in the
calculation.
(Prior Code, § 1157.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.299 GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location
where by reason of its position, working, illumination, shape, symbol, color,
form or character, may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of,
or may be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or
interfere with, mislead, confuse or disrupt traffic safety or flow.
   (B)   Obscuring visibility. No portion of a sign shall obscure visibility
within the visibility triangle established in §
152.088(B)(5).
   (C)   Unsafe signs. Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of
falling, the property owner shall be responsible for putting the sign in a safe
and secure position or removing the sign.
   (D)   Attachment of signs. Signs shall not be attached to trees, utility
poles, rocks, fences or streetlights nor shall signs be placed on any public
property except in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Damaging landscaping. No person may, for the purpose of increasing or
enhancing the visibility of any sign, damage, trim, destroy or remove any
trees, shrubs or other vegetation within any right-of-way (unless express
written authorization is obtained from the agency having jurisdiction over the
right-of-way) or on any area where landscaping is required by village
regulations.
   (F)   Illuminated signs. The light from any illuminated sign or from any
light source shall be so shaded, shielded or directed that the light intensity
or brightness shall not adversely affect surrounding or facing residential
districts, or adversely affect the safe vision and operation of vehicles moving
on public or private roads, highways or parking areas. Light shall not directly
shine or reflect on or into residential structures.
   (G)   Numeric addresses required. All buildings shall have a sign providing
the numeric address for identification purposes to assist in fire and safety
protection. Such signs shall not require a sign permit but shall otherwise
conform to the standards of this chapter and shall be subject to the standards
of §
152.301.
   (H)   Signs on awnings, canopies or marquees.
      (1)   Awnings, canopies or marquees shall be designated as permanent
parts of the building and shall meet all of the requirements of all applicable
building and electrical codes.
      (2)   The maximum amount of signage permitted on any awnings, canopies or
marquees shall be equal to the maximum wall sign area permitted within the
applicable zoning district.
      (3)   Wall signs shall not be permitted on buildings where signage is
established on awnings, canopies or marquees and vice versa.
      (4)   Such signs shall only be illuminated from an external lighting
source. Internal illumination of awnings, canopies or marquees is expressly
prohibited.
      (5)   Such signs shall be permitted to extend into the public right-of-
way over a sidewalk but shall be required to provide a clearance of eight feet
between the sidewalk and the sign. Such sign shall not extend above the roof
line.
   (I)   Location.
      (1)   Signs shall be erected so as not to obstruct traffic sight lines or
traffic control lights at road intersections. No sign shall be constructed on
or over any road right-of-way.
      (2)   No signs provided for in this chapter shall be erected on any
private property unless the property owner’s permission has been obtained.
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, all signs shall be set
back a minimum of ten feet from any adjacent street right-of-way line and at
least 20 feet from any side lot line.
   (J)   Illumination.
      (1)   Any illuminated sign or lighting device shall employ only light
emitting a constant intensity. Lights or lighting that flashes or otherwise
portrays movement is specifically prohibited.
      (2)   All wiring, fittings and materials used in the sign shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Electrical Code in effect at the time of
installation, modification or repair of the sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted or restricted in this chapter, signs
that are illuminated shall use lighting in which the source of light shall not
be visible from the road and shall not shine on adjoining properties. No
flashing, revolving or intermittent illumination shall be employed. In
addition, the following illumination requirements shall apply.
         (a)   In the Downtown Canal District (B-1), only external lighting to
a level of 20-foot candles on the surface of the sign.
         (b)   In the Warwick Business District (B-2) and the Industrial
District (I-1), internal or external lighting with a maximum illumination of
50-foot candles on the surface of the sign.
(Prior Code, § 1157.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.300 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Signs in any public right-of-way except:
      (1)   Signs owned by the village, county, state or the federal government
and approved by the “Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices;”
      (2)   Signs installed by public utilities in their rights-of-way or on
their facilities and bearing no commercial message other than such message that
is necessary to identify the use; and
      (3)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other
right to operate in the county, where such signs are installed along its routes
and relate to schedules or other information about the transit route.
   (B)   Abandoned on-premises signs:
      (1)   Any on-premises sign now or hereafter existing that no longer
identifies a bona fide business conducted on the premises or a product sold on
the premises for a period of six months shall be deemed abandoned;
      (2)   Such a sign shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or
person having the beneficial use of the building or structure upon which the
sign may be found within 30 days after notification to the owner from the
Zoning Inspector; and
      (3)   All signs shall be in conformance with §
152.305, regarding the maintenance of signs.
   (C)   Signs that consist of lights that revolve, flash or show any type of
movement are prohibited in all districts with the exception of electronic
message centers specifically permitted in the Industrial District (I-D) and the
Warwick Business District (B-2);
   (D)   Signs emitting any noisy mechanical device (whistles, horns, sirens or
any other noisy audible devices);
   (E)   Signs that contain or consist of banners, strings of lights, posters,
pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or other similar moving devices for the
purpose of advertising or attracting attention;
   (F)   Off-premises signs;
   (G)   Feather signs;
   (H)   Air activated graphics or balloons bearing a commercial message except
where otherwise permitted in this chapter;
   (I)   Any sign, which rotates, revolves or otherwise moves unless otherwise
expressly permitted under this subchapter;
   (J)   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers that are parked or located for
the primary purpose of displaying such signs. This does not apply to portable
signs or lettering on buses, taxis, or vehicles operating during the normal
course of business;
   (K)   Signs imitating or resembling official traffic or governmental signs
or signals;
   (L)   Signs on outdoor vending machines;
   (M)   Portable signs;
   (N)   Snipe signs;
   (O)   Graffiti; or
   (P)   Signs located above the roofline.
(Prior Code, § 1157.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.301 SIGNS OR CHANGES NOT REQUIRING A SIGN PERMIT.
   (A)   The following signs shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter, wherever applicable, but shall be exempt from the sign permit and
fee requirement of this subchapter and §
152.053:
      (1)   Commemorative or memorial plaques placed by the village, county,
state or recognized historical agencies; such a sign shall bear no commercial
message, shall not be directly illuminated, and shall have a maximum sign area
of 16 square feet;
      (2)   One wall sign, not to exceed one square foot in area, for each
dwelling unit. Such sign shall not contain any commercial message; such sign
shall not be directly illuminated;
      (3)   Routine maintenance of any sign, not involving structural changes
to the sign;
      (4)   Changes of message, either manually or electronically, on an
electronic message center or reader board (changeable copy sign), subject to
limitations in this subchapter on the frequency of changes of message. Changes
of sign panels or other changes to signs may require a sign permit in
accordance with §
152.296;
      (5)   Signs installed by the state, county or officials of the village in
the course of their official duties; and
      (6)   Other signs conforming to the “Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” and bearing no commercial message.
   (B)   The following signs shall be exempt from the permit requirements of
this subchapter and shall not be considered in applying limitations on the
number of signs permitted on a wall or a lot, but such signs shall be subject
to the lighting, installation, height, setback, maintenance and other standards
set forth in this section:
      (1)   Detached signs smaller than two square feet in area and less than
four feet in height, and containing no commercial message; and
      (2)   Wall signs smaller than two square feet in area and containing no
commercial message.
(Prior Code, § 1157.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.302 PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following permanent signs may be permitted in all residential zoning
districts and shall require a sign permit and related fee.
   (A)   A permanent ground mounted sign or wall signs may be permitted for any
platted residential development; provided that the signs comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   The sign may be permitted at each primary development entrance
as determined by the Zoning Inspector.
         (b)   The sign shall be set back ten feet from the public right-of-way
and 20 feet from any adjacent side lot lines.
         (c)   The sign may have a maximum sign area of 20 square feet not
including any fence or wall on which the sign is located.
         (d)   No sign or any portion of the structure shall exceed four feet
in height.
         (e)   The sign may only be illuminated by an external light source.
      (2)   Ground mounted monument signs.
         (a)   One permanent ground mounted monument sign may be permitted for
each entrance.
         (b)   If an applicant proposes to use a ground mounted monument sign,
no wall signs shall be permitted.
       (3)   Wall signs.
         (a)   A maximum of two wall signs may be permitted for each entrance.
         (b)   The signs shall be mounted to a decorative wall or fence that
generally runs parallel with the street.
         (c)   Where two signs are used, such signage shall be identical.
         (d)   If an applicant proposes to use wall signs, no ground mounted
monument sign shall be permitted.
   (B)   One permanent ground mounted sign may be permitted for any public or
institutional use in a residential zoning district; provided that the sign
meets the following requirements.
      (1)   The sign shall be a ground mounted sign.
      (2)   The sign shall be set back ten feet from the public right-of-way
and 20 feet from any adjacent side lot lines.
      (3)   The maximum sign area shall be 20 square feet.
      (4)   No such sign or any portion of the structure shall exceed four feet
in height.
      (5)   Up to ten square feet of the sign may be a manual changeable copy
sign.
      (6)   The sign may only be illuminated by an external light source.
      (7)   Such sign shall be subject to conditional use review as established
in §
152.055.
(Prior Code, § 1157.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.303 PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   The following signs may be permitted in the specified business districts;
provided that no such sign shall bear an off-premise commercial message, and
each such sign shall require a sign permit.
   (A)   Permanent pole mounted signs. Each platted lot in the Warwick Business
District (B-2) and the Industrial District (I-1), as of the effective date of
this chapter, or amendment thereto, shall be permitted to have one pole mounted
sign that complies with the following provisions.
      (1)   One pole mounted sign is permitted on each parcel or lot as
follows.
         (a)   The maximum sign area shall be 20 square feet.
         (b)   The maximum sign height shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   The sign shall be set back ten feet from the public right-of-way
and 20 feet from any adjacent lot lines.
      (2)   Where a lot is a corner lot, double frontage lot or is of another
configuration with multiple street frontages, each street frontage may have a
pole mounted sign that meets the above requirement. The sign area for each
additional sign shall be calculated based on the street frontage where the sign
is to be placed.
   (B)   Permanent wall signs (projecting). Any business tenant within a
business district shall be permitted one wall sign per building that faces a
public street subject to the following.
      (1)   The maximum sign area of the wall sign for any single business
tenant shall not exceed 50 square feet in area.
      (2)   Wall signs shall not be mounted in such a way as to exceed 12 feet
in height and in no case shall exceed the height of the structure.
      (3)   Wall signs shall not project more than four feet as measured from
the face of the building to the front of the sign.
   (C)   Window signs.
      (1)   Each business located in a business district may have window signs;
provided they do not cover more than 20% of each window surface.
      (2)   The window signs shall be so located as to allow clear visibility
into the building for the purposes of fire and police protection.
      (3)   Window signs that are permanent in nature shall be subject to the
sign permit review established in §
152.053.
   (D)   Permanent driveway signs. Permanent ground mounted signs (directional
signs) shall be permitted in all business districts, near driveway entrances to
a street and at intersections of internal drives under the following
provisions:
      (1)   The signs shall be set back five feet from all lot lines but in no
case shall the sign be set back more than 25 feet from the driveway entrance or
intersection of internal drives;
      (2)   One sign may be permitted per individual driveway or internal
intersection;
      (3)   The sign may not exceed four square feet in area;
      (4)   The sign height shall not exceed three feet in height; and
      (5)   No more than two square feet of the sign shall include a commercial
message.
   (E)   Flags. Up to one flag with commercial speech may be flown on a
flagpole in any business district in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The maximum height of any flagpole shall be 35 feet.
      (2)   All flagpoles shall be permanently installed into the ground with
any required footings as may be necessary based on the individual pole.
      (3)   The maximum flag size shall be 40 square feet.
   (F)   Permanent signs related to gasoline sales.
      (1)   In addition to other signs permitted by this section, one permanent
double-faced sign shall be permitted per fueling station where gasoline or fuel
is dispensed.
      (2)   The permitted pole mounted sign associated with gasoline sales may
incorporate an electronic message center that shall not exceed ten square feet
of the permitted sign area.
      (3)   Any message change shall be a static, instant message change with
no scrolling or other motion allowed.
   (G)   Electronic message centers.
      (1)   Electronic message centers shall be permitted in the Warwick
Business District (B-2) and the Industrial District (I-1).
      (2)   One electronic message center may be permitted on each lot and
shall be reviewed as a conditional use (see §
152.055).
      (3)   The maximum sign area for an electronic message center shall be 20
square feet, or 50% of the total sign area, whichever is less.
      (4)   Any message change shall be a static, instant message change with
no scrolling or other motion allowed.
      (5)   Messages shall only change once every 24 hours or longer.
      (6)   The maximum brightness levels for an electronic message center
shall not exceed 12 foot candles, measured from the nearest point of any
highway or public road. All such signs shall be equipped with a dimmer control
and a photo cell which shall constantly monitor ambient light conditions and
adjust brightness accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1157.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.304 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   General definitions related to temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall be as defined in this chapter and may
include, but are not limited to, political signs, real estate signs and special
event signs.
      (2)   Temporary signs with a commercial message include, but are not
limited to, real estate signs, signs that reference the sale of items or other
business-related activities, or that include text classified as a commercial
message.
      (3)   Temporary signs that do not contain a commercial message include,
but are not limited to, political signs, free speech signs and any other sign
with text or message that is not classified as a commercial message.
   (B)   Standards that apply to all temporary signs.
      (1)   No temporary sign shall be mounted, attached, affixed, installed or
otherwise secured by any permanent means to any building, permanent sign, other
structure or improvement, or to the ground upon which it is erected.
      (2)   No temporary sign shall be mounted, attached, affixed, installed or
otherwise secured so as to protrude above the roof of a structure.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be illuminated by anything other than non-
reflected daylight.
      (4)   Unless otherwise specified, temporary signs, regardless of the
message, shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from the edge of street
pavement or the edge of a street right-of-way, whichever is greater, and shall
have a maximum height of four feet.
   (C)   Permitted temporary signs. This section addresses permitted temporary
signs, with a commercial message, in any zoning district.
      (1)   Temporary commercial signage on lots.
         (a)   One temporary sign containing a commercial message may be
permitted on any lot where the lot or the structure on the lot is for sale or
for lease or where there is an auction of the lot, structure or real property
on the lot.
         (b)   If the lot has more than one street frontage, one additional
temporary sign shall be allowed. Each temporary sign allowed shall be located
on separate street frontages.
         (c)   The maximum sign area for each sign shall be six square feet.
         (d)   The maximum sign for each sign shall be four feet unless
attached temporarily to a wall or façade, in which case it shall not be
attached or otherwise mounted above the roof line.
         (e)   No sign permit or fee shall be required for these signs.
      (2)   Temporary commercial signage for development. As an accessory use
to the permitted temporary commercial activity of land development, one
temporary sign, with a commercial message is permitted during the development
of a subdivision or for the construction of a non-residential use in accordance
with the following.
         (a)   The sign shall not be illuminated and shall have a maximum sign
area of 20 square feet and a maximum height of four feet.
         (b)   The sign shall be installed on the property to be developed.
         (c)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from all street
rights-of-way.
         (d)   The sign shall require a sign permit and fee pursuant to §
152.053.
         (e)   The sign may be maintained for the following periods of time:
            1.   Until a permitted permanent sign identifying the subdivision
or development is installed; or
            2.   Until 30 days following the completion of construction of the
development or of the last dwelling unit.
         (f)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to review and
renew the temporary sign permit every six months if a finding is made that the
sign and ground upon which it is located are maintained in a neat and orderly
manner. If not, the Zoning Inspector may revoke the sign permit and order the
sign removed.
      (3)   Temporary commercial signage for temporary special events. As an
accessory use to a permitted temporary special event lasting 48 hours or less,
the owner or occupier of the lot where the event will take place may post one
additional temporary sign with a commercial message in addition to the above
temporary signs in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The sign shall have a maximum sign area of 16 square feet and a
maximum height of four feet.
         (b)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from all street
rights-of-way.
         (c)   The sign may be displayed for a maximum period of 14 consecutive
days for up to two separate times per calendar year. Each of the 14-day display
periods must be at least 30 consecutive days from the prior 14-day period.
         (d)   The sign shall not require a sign permit but shall require a
deposit, in the amount specified in the village fee schedule, paid in advance
to the Zoning Inspector. The fee shall be refundable to the applicant upon the
removal of all signs and supporting materials. Upon failure to remove signs
within the specified time period, without limitation of remedy, the cash
deposit shall be forfeited to the village to defray the costs of removing the
signs.
         (e)   The sign shall not be illuminated.
         (f)   The temporary sign can be an A-frame sign or a sign attached to
the ground in a temporary manner.
      (4)   Temporary signs for public or institutional uses. Public or
institutional uses shall be permitted to utilize temporary signs pursuant to
this section provided the sign meets the following provisions.
         (a)   The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in area for any one
side.
         (b)   The sign shall not exceed four feet in height.
         (c)   One sign shall be permitted for a period of 14 consecutive days
for up to four separate times per calendar year.
   (D)   Temporary political signs. Any political sign that does not exceed 12
square feet per side shall be permitted in any district; provided that such
sign shall not be erected for more than 30 consecutive days before it must be
taken down and, at the property owners’ option, be replaced with a new sign.
The sign shall require a sign permit and fee pursuant to §
152.053.
(Prior Code, § 1157.10) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.305 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All signs, including flags, shall be constructed, maintained and
illuminated in a safe manner, and shall comply with applicable codes and be
kept in good repair.
      (1)   Signs shall be free from rust, dust, dirt and other such debris.
      (2)   Exposed surfaces shall be clean and painted if paint is required.
      (3)   Defective parts shall be replaced.
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the right to order the repair or
removal of any sign that is defective, damaged or substantially deteriorated.
Such sign shall be repaired or removed by the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the sign within 30 days after notification to the owner from
the Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of falling, the
owner, tenant or lessee shall, upon receipt of written notice from the Zoning
Inspector, proceed at once to correct the unsafe condition and/or remove the
sign in question.
   (C)   Signs shall not be constructed, maintained and/or illuminated in such
a manner as to create or allow the obstruction of vision or drivers,
pedestrians or the general public, or create a fire or safety hazard. Signs
shall be subject to the vision clearance regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1157.11) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.306 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Determination of legal non-conformity. Existing signs that do not
conform to the specific provisions of this subchapter may be eligible for the
designation of a legal non-conforming sign; provided that the non-conforming
sign:
      (1)   Is properly maintained and does not in any way endanger the public
or constitute a nuisance; and
      (2)   The sign was erected pursuant to a valid permit or variance and
complies with all other applicable laws on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Loss of legal non-conforming status. A legal non-conforming sign loses
the legal non-conforming designation if:
      (1)   The sign is relocated;
      (2)   The sign structure is replaced;
      (3)   The establishment where the sign is located ceases to operate for a
period of two years. This does not refer to general maintenance, changeable
marquees or to face and copy changes; or
      (4)   The sign is removed or abandoned for a period of two years. This
does not refer to general maintenance, changeable marquees or face and copy
changes.
   (C)   Maintenance and repair of non-conforming signs. The legal non-
conforming sign is subject to all requirements of this subchapter regarding
safety, maintenance and repair. However, if the sign suffers damage to an
extent greater than 60% of the estimated replacement value, unless such damage
was caused by vandalism, an act of God or other causes outside the influence of
the owner or user, such sign shall be reconstructed in compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1157.12) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 152.320 PURPOSE.
   Within the districts established by this chapter, some lots, uses of lands
or structures or combinations thereof may exist which were lawful prior to the
effective date or amendment of this chapter, but that are prohibited, regulated
or restricted under the terms of this chapter. The legitimate interest of those
who lawfully established these non-conformities are herein recognized by
providing for the continuance of such uses, subject to regulations limiting
their completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension and/or substitution.
While it is the intent of this chapter that such non-conformities be allowed to
continue until removed, they should not be encouraged to survive, unless
otherwise allowed in this chapter or specifically addressed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1161.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.321 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any non-conforming building, structure, lot or use existing at the
time of the effective date of this chapter may be continued, even though such
building, structure, lot or use does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter. Such non-conforming building, structure, lot or use, shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The lot on which there is located a non-conforming use shall not be
reduced in area or width to a lot area or lot width smaller than that required
within the applicable zoning district, nor shall any existing yard be reduced
so as to be smaller than the minimum yard requirements thereof.
   (C)   Passage of this chapter in no way legalizes any illegal uses or
structures existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   If the legally non-conforming use of any dwelling, building, structure
or of any land or premises is voluntarily discontinued for two years or more,
any future use thereof shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1161.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.322 NON-CONFORMITIES AND CHANGES IN USE OR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
such use shall no longer be defined as a non-conforming use and the previously
existing non-conforming use shall not be re-established unless otherwise
authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The granting of a variance for a use or structure that otherwise
complies with this chapter shall not create a non-conforming use or structure
when the variance is granted.
   (C)   When a property owner or authorized agent is granted a variance for a
non-conforming use or structure that addresses the non-conformity, the use or
structure shall no longer be considered non-conforming.
   (D)   If a property owner or authorized agent is granted a variance for a
non-conforming use or structure that addresses some non-conformities but
additional non-conformities continue, the use or structure shall still be
considered legally non-conforming.
(Prior Code, § 1161.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.323 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   If at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land or
structures exist that would not be permitted by the regulations of this
chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful and
provided the following.
   (A)   Enlarging or increasing. No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged
or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code unless it
complies with the provision of division (F) below.
   (B)   Moving. No structure containing a non-conforming use shall be moved,
in whole or in part, to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that
occupied by such uses at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Zoning Code.
   (C)   Discontinuing, abandoning or vacating. If any such non-conforming use
is discontinued, abandoned or vacated for more than two years, any subsequent
use of such land or structure shall conform to the regulations specified by
this Zoning Code for the applicable zoning district.
   (D)   Additional structures. No additional structures related to a non-
conforming use shall be constructed unless such new structure complies with the
requirements of this chapter and the applicable zoning district.
   (E)   Change of non-conforming use. A non-conforming use may be changed to
another non-conforming use; provided that the proposed non-conforming use is in
less conflict with the character and use of the district than the existing non-
conforming use, as determined by the BZA at a public hearing.
   (F)   Expansion of a non-conforming use. The expansion of a non-conforming
use is prohibited.
   (G)   Termination of non-conforming uses.
      (1)   Termination of use through discontinuance. When any non-conforming
use is discontinued or abandoned for more than two years, any new use shall not
be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it
is located, and the non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed. The
intent to continue a non-conforming use shall not be evidence of its
continuance.
      (2)   Termination of use by damage or destruction.
         (a)   If a non-conforming residential use is damaged or destroyed to
any extent, such structure and use may be reestablished on the same lot within
the same footprint of the original building. Such reestablishment of the use
shall require the issuance of a zoning certificate.
         (b)   If any other type of non-conforming use is damaged or destroyed,
the reestablishment of the non-conforming use may only be permitted if reviewed
and approved by the BZA after a public hearing. The BZA shall take the
following under consideration when making a determination about permitting the
reestablishment of the non-conforming use:
            1.   The extent of damage and whether the damage is so significant
as to be considered a complete structure loss (i.e., full rebuild);
            2.   Whether the restoration or construction could potentially
create new non-conformities and/or whether such restoration or construction can
reasonably eliminate some non-conformities;
            3.   Whether the damage or destruction was done by act of the owner
or tenant, by a natural force, or some other event that was out of owner’s
control;
            4.   That such restoration or construction is commenced within one
year of the date that such notice is given; and
            5.   That the owner of the property in question has filed a notice
of intention with the Zoning Inspector to continue the non-conforming use
within six months of such destruction or damage with the Zoning Inspector.
         (c)   In the event that such notice is not filed, then the non-
conforming use in question shall be deemed to be abandoned and subject to the
two-year rule.
(Prior Code, § 1161.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.324 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any non-conforming structure may be enlarged, maintained, repaired or
altered; provided that no such enlargement, maintenance, repair or alteration
shall create either an additional non-conformity or increase the degree of the
existing non-conformity of all or any part of such structure.
   (B)   No non-conforming structure shall be relocated in whole or in part to
any other location on the same or any other lot unless the entire structure
shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the applicable zoning district.
   (C)   Governmental acquisition of a portion of a lot for a public purpose
that results in reduction in a required yard or building setback below that
required in the applicable zoning district shall not render a structure non-
conforming.
(Prior Code, § 1161.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.325 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   If an existing lot of record in a residential district is occupied by
a dwelling, such dwelling shall be maintained and may be repaired, modernized
or altered, provided that:
      (1)   The building shall not be enlarged in floor area unless the
enlarged section(s) complies with all regulations of this chapter, with the
exception of the lot area and the lot width regulations;
      (2)   The number of dwelling units shall not be increased unless in
conformance with this chapter;
      (3)   Dwelling units may be expanded without requiring any additional
garage space or parking space; provided the addition does not occupy space that
could be used for parking or a garage in compliance with these regulations; and
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector may authorize detached garages to be located
not less than five feet from side and rear lot lines when the Zoning Inspector
determines that compliance with the applicable setback requirements is not
possible.
   (B)   Any construction proposed on an existing lot of record that is a flag
lot which results in a proposed dwelling unit being constructed behind an
existing dwelling shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall review the placement of the building on the lot and may
require screening to protect the privacy of the existing dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 1161.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.326 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided that
the footprint and height of the structure as it existed, when it became non-
conforming, shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to safe condition of any building, or part thereof, declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official. Where appropriate, a building permit for such activities shall
be required.
(Prior Code, § 1161.08) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.327 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   An applicant for any review procedure that deals with a non-conformity shall
bear the burden of proof in demonstrating that the non-conformity was legal on
the date the use, structure or lot became non-conforming.
(Prior Code, § 1161.09) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.340 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Zoning Inspector, or his or her designee, shall be the enforcing officer
of this chapter. The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to enforce, issue
orders to prevent and stop violations, and administer the provisions of this
chapter. The Zoning Inspector may be assisted by other personnel as the Village
Council deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1165.01) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.341 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this chapter and
by the state statutes:
      (1)   To engage in any construction, use of land or building, expansion,
change of occupancy or other activity of any nature upon the land and
improvements thereon subject to the jurisdiction of the village without all of
the required certificates or reviews, or other forms of authorization as may be
set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   To engage in any construction, use of land or building, expansion,
change of occupancy or other activity of any nature in any way inconsistent
with any approved certificate or approval granted by the village in accordance
with this chapter;
      (3)   To violate, by act or omission, any term, condition or
qualification placed by the village upon a required certificate or approval
granted by the village;
      (4)   To violate any other term, condition, standard or requirement of
this chapter; or
      (5)   To continue any of the above-stated violations.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   In all cases, the Village Council, the Village Solicitor, the Zoning
Inspector or any adjacent or neighboring property owners who would be
especially damaged by such violations, in addition to other remedies provided
by law, may, at their own expense, institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or
any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove
such violation.
(Prior Code, § 1165.02) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.342 INSPECTION.
   The Zoning Inspector shall inspect each alleged violation and shall, in
writing, order correction of all conditions which are found to be in violation
of this chapter. The Zoning Inspector will prepare a written report and case
file on any matter that might warrant suit or prosecution for a violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1165.03) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.343 REMEDIES.
   If any building or land is used, altered, constructed, enlarged or any other
action proposed in violation of the provisions of this chapter or any amendment
or supplement thereto, the Village Council, the Village Solicitor, the Zoning
Inspector or any person or any property owner damaged by or subject to damage
by such violation, in addition to remedies provided by law, is hereby empowered
or authorized to institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change
maintenance or use.
(Prior Code, § 1165.04) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.344 AFFECTED PARTIES.
   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part thereof,
and any architect, engineer, surveyor, builder, contractor, agent or other
person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains a violation may be
penalized pursuant to §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 1165.06) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.345 OTHER ACTIONS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation including
issuing a misdemeanor citation for a continuing Zoning Code violation.
(Prior Code, § 1165.07) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any regulation, provision,
amendment or supplement to this chapter, or failing to obey any lawful order of
the Zoning Inspector issued pursuant thereto, shall be fined an administrative/
civil fine as listed in the village fee schedule pursuant to §
37.01. The first offense shall be deemed a level one violation, a second
offense shall be deemed a level two violation and each offense thereafter shall
be deemed a level three violation. Each and every day during which such illegal
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change,
maintenance or use continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   If payment is not received by the village within 30 days from the date
of the mailing such notice, Council shall then make a written return to the
County Fiscal Officer of its action, showing the total charges together with
all applicable attorney and/or collection agency fees up to one-third of the
total amount owed. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate, shall
be a lien upon the lot from the date of entry and shall be collected as other
taxes are collected and returned to the village by the County Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee has the discretion to waive up to
50% of the total assessed fine or lien and execute any related paperwork in
changing a lien release. The Village Council must approve any fine waiver or
lien release beyond 50% of the total fine or lien levied.
(Prior Code, § 1165.05) (Ord. O-18-20, passed 11-20-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                        Code Section
1.01                                10.01
1.02                                10.02
1.05                                10.02
1.14                                10.03
1.15                                10.03
1.23                                10.05
1.42                                10.03
1.43                                10.03
1.44                                10.02
1.45                                10.03
1.46                                10.03
1.47                                10.18
1.48                                10.18
1.49                                10.18
1.50                                10.07
1.51                                10.06
1.52                                10.06
1.54                                10.04
1.55                                10.05
1.56                                10.05
1.57                                10.04
1.58                                10.04
1.59                                10.02
128.01(A)                           136.20
128.96(F)-(H)                       136.20
128.99(A),(B)                       136.20
307.79                              51.02
701.01                              10.02
715.47                              91.05
715.67                              130.99
723.011                             91.06
901.51                              131.21
901.99(A)                           131.21
925.62                              90.34
925.99(B)                           90.34
951.02                              90.01
951.10                              90.01
951.11                              90.02
951.12                              90.03
951.13                              90.04
951.99                              90.01
955.011(B)                          90.32
955.10                              90.27
955.11                              90.28
955.21                              90.29
955.22                              90.01
955.222                             90.01
955.24                              90.30
955.25                              90.31
955.26                              90.05
955.28(A)                           90.07
955.39                              90.05
955.43(A),(B)                       90.32
955.43(C)                           90.32
955.50                              90.33
955.54                              90.36
955.99(A)                           90.28
                                    90.27;
955.99(B)                           90.30;
                                    90.31
955.99(C)                           90.05;
                                    90.33
955.99(D)                           90.32
955.99(E)                           90.01;
                                    90.29
955.99(F)                           90.01
955.99(G)                           90.01
955.99(H)                           90.01
955.99(J)                           90.01
955.99(L)                           90.01
955.99(M)                           90.01
955.99(N)                           90.01
955.99(O)                           90.36
955.99(P)                           90.01
955.99(Q)                           90.01
959.01                              90.20
959.02                              90.21
959.03                              90.22
959.04                              90.21;
                                    90.22
959.13                              90.23
959.131                             90.23
959.15                              90.24
959.17                              90.25
959.21                              90.37
959.99(B)                           90.21
959.99(C)                           90.22;
                                    90.25
959.99(C),(I)                       90.24
959.99(D)                           90.23;
                                    90.37
959.99(E)                           90.23
959.99(E)(3)                        90.20
959.99(E)(7)                        90.37
1349.17                             131.31
1349.99(A)                          131.31
1533.161                            90.35
1533.171(A)                         131.24;
                                    135.05
1533.99(B)                          90.35
1533.99(C)                          131.24;
                                    135.05
2901.01                             130.02
2901.02                             130.03
2901.03                             130.04
2901.04                             130.05
2901.05                             130.13
2901.06                             130.14
2901.08                             130.15
2901.09                             130.21
2901.11                             130.16
2901.13                             130.06
2901.21                             130.07
2901.22                             130.08
2901.23                             130.09
2901.24                             130.10
2903.05                             135.02
2903.06                             135.03
2903.08(A)(3),(C)(3),(D)(3),(E)-(G) 135.03
2903.09                             135.01
2903.10                             135.19
2903.13                             135.04
2903.14                             135.04
2903.16                             135.19
2903.21                             135.06
2903.211                            135.06
2903.22                             135.06
2903.31                             135.17
2903.311(B),(C)                     135.17
2903.33                             135.20
2903.34                             135.20
2903.341                            135.20
2903.35                             135.20
2903.36                             135.20
2905.03                             135.07
2905.12                             135.09
2907.01                             133.01
2907.04                             133.02
2907.06                             133.03
2907.08                             133.05
2907.09                             133.04
2907.10                             133.06
2907.23                             133.07
2907.231                            133.07
2907.24                             133.08
2907.241                            133.08
2907.25                             133.09
2907.26                             133.13
2907.31                             133.10
2907.311                            133.10
2907.33                             133.12
2907.35                             133.10
2907.36                             133.14
2907.37                             133.15
2907.38                             133.16
2907.39                             133.17
2907.40                             133.18
2909.01                             131.01
2909.03                             131.02
2909.06                             131.03
2909.07                             131.04
2909.08(A)-(E)                      131.05
2909.09                             131.03
2909.10                             131.34
2909.101                            131.34
2909.11(B)-(D)                      131.02
2909.31                             136.20
2911.21                             131.06
2911.211                            131.06
2911.23                             131.06
2911.32                             131.07
2913.01                             131.01
2913.02                             131.08
2913.03                             131.09
2913.04                             131.10
2913.07                             131.33
2913.11                             131.11
2913.21                             131.12
2913.31(B),(C)(2)                   131.26
2913.32                             131.27
2913.33                             131.13
2913.34                             131.29
2913.40                             131.23
2913.401                            131.23
2913.41                             131.14
2913.42                             131.15
2913.43                             131.16
2913.44                             131.28
2913.441                            132.11
2913.45                             131.17
2913.47                             131.23
2913.48                             131.23
2913.51                             131.18
2913.61(B)-(E)                      131.19
2913.71                             131.20
2913.72                             131.25
2913.73                             131.25
2915.01                             134.01
2915.02(A)-(G),(K)                  134.02
2915.03                             134.03
2915.04                             134.03
2915.05                             134.05
2915.06                             134.14
2915.061                            134.14
2915.09                             134.06
2915.091                            134.10
2915.092                            134.11
2915.093                            134.12
2915.094                            134.13
2915.10                             134.07
2915.11                             134.08
2915.12                             134.08
2915.13                             134.12
2915.14                             134.15
2917.01                             132.10
2917.03                             132.01
2917.031                            132.01
2917.04                             132.02
2917.05                             132.03
2917.11                             132.04
2917.12                             132.05
2917.13                             132.06
2917.14                             132.15
2917.21                             132.07
2917.211                            133.20
2917.31                             132.08
2917.32                             132.09
2917.40                             132.13
2917.41                             132.14
2919.01                             135.10
2919.21                             135.13
2919.22(A)-(E),(H)                  135.14
2919.224                            135.12
2919.23                             135.15
2919.231                            135.15
2919.24                             135.18
2919.25                             135.16
2919.27                             135.23
2921.01                             136.01
2921.04                             136.17
2921.13                             136.02
2921.14                             136.14
2921.15                             136.19
2921.21                             136.03
2921.22                             136.04
2921.23                             136.05
2921.24                             136.16
2921.25                             136.16
2921.29                             136.20
2921.31                             136.06
2921.32                             136.07
2921.321                            136.15
2921.33                             136.08
2921.331(A)-(C),(E),(F)             70.02
2921.36                             136.13
2921.37                             136.13
2921.42                             136.09
2921.43                             136.10
2921.44                             136.11
2921.45                             136.12
2921.51                             132.12
2921.52(A)-(D)                      136.18
2923.02                             130.11
2923.03                             130.12
2923.11                             137.01
2923.12                             137.02
2923.1211(B),(C)                    137.13
2923.1212                           137.13
2923.122(C)-(G)                     137.11
2923.126                            137.13
2923.131                            137.12
2923.15                             137.03
2923.16                             137.03
2923.18                             137.10
2923.19                             137.06
2923.20                             137.07
2923.201                            137.14
2923.211                            137.08
2923.24                             137.05
2925.01                             138.01
2925.04(A),(B),(C)(5),(G)           138.06
2925.11                             138.03
2925.12                             138.04
2925.13(A)-(C),(F)                  138.05
2925.14                             138.13
2925.141                            138.13
2925.31                             138.07
2925.32(B)(4),(D)(2),(F),(G)        138.10
2925.33                             138.10
2925.34                             138.19
2925.36(A)-(C)                      138.08
2925.37(A),(G)                      138.12
2925.50                             138.09
2925.51                             138.11
2925.511                            138.11
2925.55                             138.18
2925.56                             138.18
2925.57                             138.18
2925.58                             138.18
2925.62                             138.20
2927.01                             135.28
2927.02                             135.25
2927.021                            135.25
2927.022                            135.25
2927.023                            135.25
2927.024                            135.25
2927.03                             135.21
2927.11                             131.35
2927.12                             135.22
2927.15                             135.08
2927.17                             133.19
2927.27                             130.20
2929.21                             130.99
2929.22                             130.18
2929.23                             133.99
2929.24                             130.99
2929.25                             130.99
2929.26                             130.99
2929.27                             130.99
2929.28                             130.99
2929.31                             130.99
2929.41                             130.19
2935.041                            131.22
2935.28                             70.08
2935.36(E)                          130.02
2981.07                             131.30
2981.11                             130.17
2981.12                             130.17
2981.13(A)                          130.17
3701.81                             135.27
3701.82                             96.040
3701.99(B)                          96.040
3701.99(C)                          135.27
3715.05                             138.18
3715.06                             138.18
3716.11                             135.24
3716.99(C)                          135.24
3719.08(A),(E)                      138.14
3719.172(A),(B)                     138.15
3719.19                             138.09
3719.99(C)                          138.14
3719.99(E)                          138.15
3737.51(A)                          96.036
3737.61                             96.037
3737.62                             96.038
3737.63                             96.039
3737.99(B)                          96.036
3737.99(C)                          96.037
3737.99(D)                          96.038
3737.99(E)                          96.039
3743.01                             96.001
3743.25                             96.010
3743.45                             96.002
3743.54(B)-(F)                      96.003
3743.60(E)-(L)                      96.004
3743.61(E)-(L)                      96.004
3743.63                             96.005
3743.64(C)-(G)                      96.006
3743.65(A)-(E),(G),(H)              96.004
3743.66                             96.007
3743.68                             96.009
3743.80                             96.008
3743.99(C),(D),(F)-(H)              96.999
3767.13                             91.09
3767.201                            70.09
3767.29                             91.01
3767.32                             91.08
3767.99(B)                          91.01
3767.99(C)                          91.08;
                                    91.09
3767.99(D)                          70.09
3780.36                             138.02
3780.99                             138.02
3781.107                            96.034
3781.108(A),(B)                     96.035
3781.55                             133.04
3791.02                             96.034;
                                    96.035
3791.03                             96.034;
                                    96.035
3791.031                            135.26
4301.01                             92.01
4301.20                             92.02
4301.21                             92.03
4301.22                             92.04
4301.244                            92.01
4301.58                             92.05
4301.60                             92.06
4301.61                             92.28
4301.611                            92.29
4301.62                             92.07
4301.63                             92.08
4301.631                            92.09
4301.633                            92.11
4301.634                            92.12
4301.637                            92.14
4301.638                            92.04;
                                    92.13
4301.639(A),(C)                     92.15
4301.64                             92.16
4301.65                             92.10
4301.66                             92.18
4301.67                             92.19
4301.68                             92.20
4301.69                             92.13
4301.70                             92.99
4301.74                             92.27
                                    92.07;
4301.99(A)                          92.10;
                                    92.99
                                    92.04;
4301.99(B)                          92.09;
                                    92.16;
                                    92.19
                                    92.03;
                                    92.05;
                                    92.06;
4301.99(C)                          92.11;
                                    92.13;
                                    92.18;
                                    92.20;
                                    92.27
4301.99(D)                          92.13
4301.99(D),(H)                      92.04
4301.99(E)                          92.08;
                                    92.09
4301.99(F)                          92.12
4301.99(I)                          92.13
4301.99(J)                          92.10
4303.202(D)(2)                      92.17
4303.208(C)                         92.17
4303.25                             92.05
4303.40                             92.26
4303.99(D)                          92.17
4399.09                             92.21
4399.10                             92.22
4399.14                             92.23
4399.15                             92.24
4399.16                             92.25
4399.99(A)                          92.25
4399.99(B)                          92.21
4399.99(C)                          92.22
4399.99(D)                          92.23
4399.99(E)                          92.24
4501.01(LL)                         70.01
4501.01(TT)                         72.061
4503.05                             71.02
4503.11(A)                          71.01
4503.11(D)                          71.01
4503.111(A),(C)                     71.01
4503.111(B)                         71.01
4503.12(A)                          71.01
4503.12(D)                          71.01
4503.21(A)                          71.01
4503.21(B),(C)                      71.01
4503.236                            71.03
4505.18                             71.03
4506.01                             71.45
4506.011                            71.46
4506.03(A)-(C)                      71.48
4506.03(D)                          71.48
4506.04(A),(B)                      71.47
4506.04(C)                          71.47
4506.05(A)-(C)                      71.48
4506.05(D)                          71.48
4506.10(A),(E)                      71.49
4506.12(I)                          71.47
4506.12(J)                          71.47
4506.15(A)                          71.50
4506.15(B)                          71.50
4506.15(C)                          71.50
4506.17(H)                          71.50
4506.17(N)                          71.50
4506.19                             71.51
4506.20                             71.52
4506.23                             71.50
4506.99                             71.99
4507.02(A)                          71.22
4507.03                             71.22
4507.04                             71.22
4507.05(F)                          71.21
4507.05(I)                          71.21
4507.071(B)-(I)                     71.21
4507.071(J)                         71.21
4507.213                            71.22
4507.30                             71.20
4507.31(A)                          71.21
4507.31(B)                          71.21
4507.321                            71.23
4507.35                             71.26
4507.36                             71.27
4507.99                             71.99
4509.102                            136.02
4509.74                             73.33
4510.037(J)                         71.28
                                    71.28;
4510.04                             71.30—
                                    71.32
4510.05                             71.25
4510.11                             71.28
4510.111                            71.28
4510.12                             71.29
4510.14                             71.30
4510.15                             71.25
4510.16                             71.31
4510.21                             71.32
4510.44                             73.08
4511.01                             70.01
4511.02                             10.16
4511.03                             70.03
4511.031                            70.38
4511.04                             70.04
4511.041                            70.04
4511.042                            70.04
4511.05                             70.05
4511.051                            70.06
4511.08                             70.07
4511.12(A)                          70.30
4511.12(B)                          70.30
4511.121(A)-(C),(E)                 70.30
4511.121(D)                         70.30
4511.13                             70.31
4511.131                            70.32
4511.132                            70.33
4511.14                             70.34
4511.16                             70.35
4511.17                             70.36
4511.18                             70.37
4511.181                            73.01
4511.19(A)-(M)                      73.01
4511.191(A)                         73.02
4511.191(D)                         73.02
4511.192                            73.02
4511.194                            73.03
4511.20                             73.05
4511.201                            73.06
4511.202                            73.07
4511.203                            71.24
4511.204                            72.131
4511.205                            72.132
4511.21(A)-(G)                      73.10
4511.21(O)                          73.10
4511.21(P)                          73.10
4511.211(A)-(E)                     73.10
4511.211(F)                         73.10
4511.213(A)-(C)                     72.120
4511.213(D)                         72.120
4511.213(E)                         72.120
4511.214                            73.16
4511.215                            73.16
4511.216                            73.16
4511.22                             73.11
4511.23                             73.12
4511.24                             73.12
4511.25                             72.001
4511.251                            73.09
4511.26                             72.003
4511.27                             72.004
4511.28                             72.005
4511.29                             72.006
4511.30                             72.007
4511.31                             72.008
4511.32                             72.009
4511.33                             72.010
4511.34                             72.011
4511.35                             72.012
4511.36                             72.013
4511.37                             72.014
4511.38                             72.015
4511.39                             72.016
4511.40                             72.017
4511.41                             72.030
4511.42                             72.031
4511.43                             72.032
4511.431(A)                         72.033
4511.431(B)                         72.033
4511.432(A)-(C),(E)                 72.033
4511.432(D)                         72.033
4511.44                             72.034
4511.441                            72.035
4511.45                             72.036
4511.451                            72.037
4511.452                            72.038
4511.454                            72.036
4511.46                             72.039
4511.47                             72.040
4511.48                             72.041
4511.481                            72.060
4511.49                             72.055
4511.491                            72.059
4511.50                             72.056
4511.51                             72.057
4511.511                            72.058
4511.512                            72.061
4511.513                            72.062
4511.514                            72.063
4511.52                             75.01
4511.521                            75.02
4511.522                            75.03
4511.53                             75.04
4511.54                             75.05
4511.55                             75.06
4511.56                             75.07
4511.60                             72.002
4511.61                             72.075
4511.62                             72.076
4511.63                             72.077
4511.64                             72.078
4511.65                             70.10
4511.66                             76.01
4511.661                            76.02
4511.67                             76.03
4511.68                             76.04
4511.681                            76.06
4511.69                             76.05
4511.70                             72.115
4511.701                            72.116
4511.71(A)                          72.117
4511.71(B)                          72.117
4511.711(A)                         72.118
4511.711(B)                         72.118
4511.712                            72.119
4511.713(A)                         72.118
4511.713(B)                         72.118
4511.714(A),(B)                     72.117
4511.714(C)                         72.117
4511.714(D)                         72.117
4511.72(A)                          72.120
4511.72(B)                          72.120
4511.73                             72.121
4511.74(A),(B)                      72.122
4511.74(C)                          72.122
4511.75                             72.090
4511.751                            72.091
4511.76(C),(H),(I)                  72.092
4511.761                            72.093
4511.762                            72.094
4511.763                            72.095
4511.764                            72.096
4511.77                             72.097
4511.771                            72.098
4511.772                            72.099
4511.79                             73.04
4511.81(A)-(H),(K),(L)              72.123
4511.82(A),(B),(D)                  72.122
4511.82(C)                          72.122
4511.84                             72.126
4511.85                             72.127
4511.99                             70.99
4511.991                            70.99
4513.02(A),(H)                      74.01
4513.021                            74.02
4513.03                             74.03
4513.04                             74.04
4513.05                             74.05
4513.06                             74.06
4513.07                             74.07
4513.071                            74.08
4513.08                             74.09
4513.09                             74.10
4513.10                             74.11
4513.11                             74.12
4513.111                            74.12
4513.112                            74.12
4513.113                            74.12
4513.114                            74.12
4513.115                            74.12
4513.12                             74.13
4513.13                             74.14
4513.14                             74.15
4513.15                             74.15
4513.16                             74.17
4513.17                             74.18
4513.17(F)                          74.18
4513.171                            74.18
4513.171(B)                         74.18
4513.18                             74.19
4513.181                            74.20
4513.182                            74.21
4513.19                             74.22
4513.20                             74.23
4513.201                            74.24
4513.202                            74.25
4513.21                             74.26
4513.22                             74.27
4513.23                             74.28
4513.24                             74.29
4513.241(C)-(J)                     74.31
4513.241(K)                         74.31
4513.25                             74.30
4513.26                             74.31
4513.261                            74.32
4513.262                            74.33
4513.263                            72.124
4513.27                             74.34
4513.28                             74.35
4513.29                             74.36
4513.30                             74.51
4513.31                             74.52
4513.32                             74.53
4513.33                             74.54
4513.34                             74.50
4513.36                             73.15
4513.361                            73.14
4513.50                             74.38
4513.51(A),(B)                      74.38
4513.51(D)                          74.38
4513.60                             70.16
4513.601                            70.16
4513.64                             70.17
4513.65                             70.18
4513.66                             70.12
4513.68                             70.12
                                    74.11;
                                    74.21;
                                    74.23—
                                    74.25;
4513.99                             74.30;
                                    74.31;
                                    74.34;
                                    74.36;
                                    74.50—
                                    74.53
4519.01                             75.25
4519.02                             75.34
4519.20(A),(B)                      75.26
4519.20(C)                          75.26
4519.22(A)                          75.26
4519.22(B)                          75.26
4519.40                             75.27
4519.401                            73.16
4519.41                             75.28
4519.44                             75.29
4519.45                             75.30
4519.46                             75.31
4519.47                             75.32
4519.48                             75.33
4519.66                             75.35
4549.02                             73.30
4549.021                            73.31
4549.03                             73.32
4549.05                             70.11
4549.08                             71.06
4549.081(B)                         70.30
4549.081(C)                         70.30
4549.10                             71.07
4549.11(A)                          71.01
4549.11(B)                          71.01
4549.12(A)                          71.01
4549.12(B)                          71.01
4549.18                             71.05
4549.20                             74.39
4731.481                            138.17
4731.99(F)                          138.17
4734.161                            138.17
4734.99(B)                          138.17
4933.18                             131.32
4933.19                             131.32
5577.02                             74.55
5577.03                             74.56
5577.04                             74.56
5577.041                            74.56
5577.042                            74.61
5577.043                            74.61
5577.044                            74.61
5577.045                            74.61
5577.05                             74.57
5577.06                             74.57
5577.10                             74.58
5577.11                             74.59
5577.12                             74.60
5577.15                             74.53
5577.99(A)                          74.55
5577.99(C)                          74.56;
                                    74.57
5577.99(D)                          74.58
5577.99(E)                          74.59
5589.08                             72.128
5589.081                            74.37
5589.12                             131.10
                                    72.128;
5589.99(B)                          74.37;
                                    131.10
5739.01(M)                          96.034
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
105.01             37.01
105.02             37.02
121.01             30.01
121.02             30.02
121.03             30.03
121.04             30.04
123.01             30.05
135.01             31.20
135.02             31.21
135.03             31.22
135.04             31.23
135.05             31.24
137.01             31.01
141.01             32.15
141.02             32.16
143.01             31.02
147.01             32.30
147.02             32.31
149.01             34.01
149.02             34.02
149.03             34.03
149.04             34.04;
                   34.05
149.06             34.06
149.07             34.07
149.08             34.08
149.09             34.09
149.10             34.10
149.11             34.11
149.12             34.12
149.13             34.13
149.14             34.14
149.15             34.15
149.16             34.16
149.17             34.17
149.18             34.18
149.19             34.19;
                   34.20
151.01             35.01
151.02             35.02
151.03             35.03
151.04             35.04
153.01             32.01
155.01             31.03
157.01             31.04
159.01             31.05
161.01             32.02
Chapter 171        33.01
183.01             36.040
183.02             36.041
183.03             36.042
183.04             36.043
183.05             36.044
183.06             36.045
185.01             36.001
185.02             36.002
185.03             36.003
185.05             36.005
185.06             36.006
185.07             36.007
185.08             36.008
185.09             36.009
185.10             36.010
185.11             36.011
185.12             36.012
185.13             36.013
185.14             36.014
185.15             36.015
185.16             36.016
185.17             36.017
185.18             36.018
185.19             36.019
185.20             36.020
185.21             36.021
185.22             36.022
185.23             36.023
185.24             36.024
185.25             36.025
185.26             36.026
185.27             36.027
185.99             36.999
187.01             36.060
187.02             36.061
187.03             36.062
187.04             36.063
187.05             36.064
187.06             36.065
187.07             36.066
187.08             36.067
187.09             36.068
187.10             36.069
187.11             36.070
187.13             36.071
187.99             36.999
Chapter 301        70.01
303.01             70.02
303.02             70.13
303.03             70.11
303.04             70.04
303.042            70.04
303.05             70.05
303.06             70.06
303.07             70.14
303.08             70.15
305.01             70.19
305.02             70.20
305.03             70.21
305.04             70.22
305.05             70.23
311.02             70.24;
                   72.122
311.03             75.08
311.43             72.126
313.01             72.001
313.02             70.10
313.02             72.003
313.03             70.31;
                   72.004
313.04             70.32;
                   72.005
313.05             70.34
313.05             72.006
313.06             72.007
313.07             70.35;
                   72.008
313.08             70.36;
                   72.010
313.09             70.33;
                   72.011
313.10             70.37;
                   72.013
313.11             70.38
313.12             72.014
313.13             72.015
313.14             72.016
313.15             72.017
313.16             72.030
313.17             72.031
313.18             72.032
313.21             72.036
313.211            72.036
313.22             72.034
313.23             72.033
313.24             72.037
313.25             72.115
313.26             72.117
313.27             72.118;
                   72.120
313.28             72.121
313.29             72.002
313.30             72.009
313.31             72.012
313.33             72.119
313.35             72.116
331.11             72.018
331.19             72.032
331.20             70.03
331.32             70.019
331.34             72.133
331.36             72.134
331.38             72.090
331.39             72.076
331.40(a)          72.077
331.40(b)          72.075
331.41             72.135
331.42             72.122
333.01             73.01;
                   73.03
                   71.25;
333.02             73.05;
                   73.06
333.03             73.10
333.031            72.120
333.04             73.11
333.05             73.13
333.06             73.12
333.07             73.09
333.08             73.07
333.10             71.03
333.11             72.131;
                   73.14
335.01             71.29
335.02             71.22
335.03             71.21;
                   71.22
335.032            72.132
335.04             71.20
335.041            71.21
335.05             71.24
335.06             71.26
335.07             71.28
335.071            71.30
335.071(A)         71.30
335.072            71.31
335.073            71.32
335.074            71.28
335.08             71.04
335.09             71.01
335.10             71.01
335.11             71.01
335.111            71.01
335.12             73.30
335.13             73.31
335.14             73.32
337.01             74.01
337.02             74.03
337.03             74.04
337.04             74.05
337.05             74.06
337.06             74.07
337.07             74.09
337.08             74.10
337.09             74.11
337.10             74.12
337.11             74.13
337.12             74.14
337.13             74.15
337.14             74.16
337.15             74.17
337.16             74.18
337.17             74.22
337.18             74.23
337.19             74.26
337.20             74.27
337.21             74.28
337.22             74.29
337.23             74.51
337.24             74.08
337.25             74.40
337.26             72.123
337.27             72.124
337.28             74.31
337.29             74.02
337.30             74.32
339.01             74.50
339.02             74.62
339.03             74.57
339.04             74.63
339.05             74.59
339.06             74.36
339.07             74.53
339.08             74.52
339.09             74.64
339.10             72.128
339.11             74.37
339.12             74.65
341.01             71.45
341.03             71.48
341.04             71.47
341.05             71.50
341.06             71.52
351.01             76.03
351.02             76.11
351.03             76.04
351.04             76.05
351.05             76.13
351.06             76.07
351.07             76.02
351.08             72.115
351.09             76.08
351.10             76.09
351.11             76.10
351.12             76.01
351.13             76.06
351.14             76.14
371.01             72.039
371.02             72.040
371.03             72.041
371.04             72.055
371.05             72.056
371.06             72.057
371.07             72.035
371.08             72.038
371.09             72.060
371.10             72.058
371.11             72.059
371.12             72.061
373.01             75.01
373.02             75.04
373.03             75.05
373.04             75.06
373.05             75.07
373.06             75.07
373.07             75.06
373.08             75.09
373.09             75.10
373.10             75.02
373.11             72.118
375.01             75.25
375.02             75.26
375.03             75.27
375.04             75.28
375.05             75.29
375.06             75.34
375.07             75.31
375.08             75.35
501.01             130.02
501.02             130.03
501.03             130.04
501.04             130.05
501.05             130.16
501.06             130.06
501.07             130.07
501.08             130.08
501.09             130.11
501.10             130.12
501.11             130.09
501.12             130.10
501.13             130.22
501.99             130.99
505.001            90.28
505.01             90.01
505.02             90.27
505.03             90.27
505.04             90.20
505.05             90.21
505.06             90.22
505.07             90.23
505.071            90.23
505.08             90.28
505.09             90.26
505.10             90.05
505.12             90.34
505.13             90.38
505.14             90.01
505.15             90.39
505.16             90.40
505.17             90.41
505.18             90.42
505.99             90.99
509.01             132.01
509.02             132.02
509.03             132.04
509.04             132.05
509.05             132.06
509.06             132.08
509.07             132.09
509.08             132.16
509.09             132.17
509.10             132.18
509.11             132.10;
                   132.19
513.01             138.01
513.02             138.02
513.04             138.04
513.05             138.05
513.06             138.06
513.07             138.07
513.08             138.08
513.11             138.10
513.12             138.13
513.121            138.13
513.13             138.12
513.14             138.11;
                   138.14
513.15             138.15
517.01             134.01
517.02             134.02
517.03             134.03
517.04             134.04
517.05             134.05
517.06             134.06
517.07             134.10
517.08             134.11
517.09             134.12
517.10             134.13
517.11             134.07
517.12             134.08
517.13             134.09
517.14             134.12
517.15             134.14
521.01             91.01
521.02             96.040
521.03             91.02;
                   91.03
521.04             91.04;
                   91.05
521.06             91.06
521.07             91.07
521.08             91.08
521.09             91.09
521.10             135.26
521.11             91.10
521.12             91.11
525.01             136.01
525.02             136.02
525.03             132.12
525.04             136.03
525.05             136.04
525.06             136.05
525.07             136.06
525.08             136.07
525.09             136.08
525.10             136.09
525.11             136.10
525.12             136.11
525.13             136.12
525.14             132.11
525.15             136.15
525.16             136.19
525.17             136.21
525.18             136.22
529.01             92.01
529.02             92.13
                   92.08;
529.021            92.11;
                   92.12
529.03             92.04
529.04             92.16
529.05             92.05
529.06             92.09
529.07             92.07
529.08             92.17
533.01             133.01
533.02             133.10
533.03             133.02
533.04             133.03
533.06             133.05
533.07             133.04
533.08             133.07
533.09             133.08
533.091            133.08
533.10             133.09
533.11             133.10
533.12             133.12
533.13             133.11
533.14             133.19
537.01             135.01
537.02             135.03
537.021            135.03
537.03             135.04
537.04             135.04
537.05             135.06
537.051            135.06
537.06             135.06
537.07             135.14
537.08             135.07
537.09             135.09
537.10             132.07
537.12             136.20
537.13             135.24
537.14             135.16
537.15             135.23
537.16             135.25
537.17             135.14
537.18             136.16
541.01             131.02
541.02             131.02
541.03             131.03
541.04             131.04
541.05             131.06
541.051            131.06
541.06             131.21
541.07             131.35
541.08             135.22
541.09             131.03
541.10             131.06
545.01             131.01
545.02             131.19
545.03             131.20
545.04             131.22
545.05             131.08
545.06             131.09
545.07             131.23
545.08             131.10
545.09             131.11
545.10             131.12
545.11             131.13
545.12             131.07
545.13             131.27
545.14             131.15
545.15             131.16
545.16             131.28
545.17             131.17
545.18             131.18
545.19             137.05
545.20             131.26
549.01             137.01
549.02             137.02
549.03             137.03
549.04             137.04
549.05             137.06
549.06             137.07
549.07             137.08
549.08             137.09
549.09             137.15
549.10             137.11
549.11             137.14
551.01             137.16
551.02             137.16
551.03             137.16
551.04             137.16
551.99             137.16
553.01             131.36
553.011            131.36
553.02             131.36
553.03             131.36
553.04             131.34
553.05             131.34
721.01             111.01
721.02             111.02
721.03             111.03
721.04             111.04
721.05             111.05
721.99             111.99
731.01             110.01
731.02             110.02
731.03             110.03
731.04             110.04
731.99             110.99
741.01             110.15
761.01             110.30
761.02             110.31
761.99             110.99
771.01             110.45
771.02             110.46
771.03             110.47
771.04             110.48
781.01             110.60
781.02             110.61
781.03             110.62
815.04             36.004
905.01             93.01
905.02             93.02
905.03             93.03
905.04             93.04
905.05             93.05
905.06             93.06
905.07             93.07
905.08             93.08
905.09             93.09
905.10             93.10
905.11             93.11
905.12             93.12
905.99             93.99
909.01             94.01
909.02             94.02
909.03             94.03
909.04             94.04
909.05             94.05
909.06             94.06
909.07             94.07
909.08             94.08
909.09             94.09
909.99             94.99
913.01             51.01
913.02             51.02
913.03             51.03
913.04             51.04
913.05             51.05
913.06             51.06
913.07             51.07
913.08             51.08
913.09             51.09
913.10             51.10
915.01             50.01
915.02             50.02
915.03             50.03
915.04             50.04
915.05             50.05
915.06             50.06
917.01             95.01
917.02             95.02
917.03             95.03
917.05             95.04
917.06             95.05
921.01             50.20
921.02             50.21
921.03             50.22
921.04             50.23
921.05             50.24
921.06             50.25
921.07             50.26
921.08             50.27
921.09             50.28
921.10             50.29
1101.01            152.001
1101.02            152.002
1101.03            152.003
1101.04            152.004
1101.05            152.005
1101.06            152.006
1101.07            152.007
1101.08            152.008
1101.09            152.009
1101.10            152.010
1101.11            152.011
1101.12            152.012
1101.13            152.013
1101.14            152.014
1105.01            152.015
1105.02            152.015
1105.03            152.015
1109.01            152.030
1109.02            152.031
1109.03            152.032
1109.04            152.033
1109.05            152.034
1109.06            152.035
1113.01            152.050
1113.02            152.051
1113.03            152.052
1113.04            152.053
1113.05            152.054
1113.06            152.055
1113.07            152.056
1113.08            152.057
1113.09            152.058
1117.01            152.070;
                   152.071
1117.03            152.071
1117.04            152.073
1121.01            152.085
1121.02            152.086
1121.03            152.087
1121.04            152.088
1121.05            152.089
1123.01            152.100
1123.02            152.101
1125.01            152.115
1125.02            152.116
1125.03            152.117
1125.04            152.118
1125.05            152.119
1125.06            152.120
1125.07            152.121
1125.08            152.122
1125.09            152.123
1125.10            152.124
1125.11            152.125
1125.12            152.126
1125.13            152.127
1125.14            152.128
1125.15            152.129
1125.16            152.130
1125.17            152.131
1125.18            152.132
1125.19            152.133
1125.20            152.134
1125.21            152.135
1125.22            152.136
1125.23            152.137
1125.24            152.138
1125.25            152.139
1125.26            152.140
1125.27            152.141
1125.28            152.142
1125.29            152.143
1125.30            152.144
1125.31            152.145
1125.32            152.146
1125.33            152.147
1125.34            152.148
1125.35            152.149
1125.36            152.150
1129.01            152.175
1133.01            152.190
1133.02            152.191
1133.03            152.192
1133.04            152.193
1133.05            152.194
1133.06            152.195
1133.07            152.196
1133.08            152.197
1133.09            152.198
1137.01            152.210
1137.02            152.211
1141.01            152.225
1141.02            152.226
1141.03            152.227
1141.04            152.228
1145.01            152.240
1145.02            152.241
1145.03            152.242
1145.04            152.243
1145.05            152.244
1145.06            152.245
1145.07            152.246
1145.08            152.247
1145.09            152.248
1149.01            152.260
1149.02            152.261
1149.03            152.262
1149.04            152.263
1149.05            152.264
1153.01            152.275
1153.02            152.276
1153.03            152.277
1153.04            152.278
1153.05            152.279
1153.06            152.280
1153.07            152.281
1153.08            152.282
1157.01            152.295
1157.02            152.296
1157.03            152.297
1157.04            152.298
1157.05            152.299
1157.06            152.300
1157.07            152.301
1157.08            152.302
1157.09            152.303
1157.10            152.304
1157.11            152.305
1157.12            152.306
1161.01            152.320
1161.02            152.321
1161.03            152.322
1161.04            152.323
1161.05            152.324
1161.06            152.325
1161.08            152.326
1161.09            152.327
1165.01            152.340
1165.02            152.341
1165.03            152.342
1165.04            152.343
1165.05            152.999
1165.06            152.344
1165.07            152.345
1301.01            150.001
1301.02            150.002
1301.03            150.003
1301.04            150.004
1301.05            150.005
1301.06            150.006
1301.07            150.007
1301.08            150.008
1301.09            150.009
1301.99            150.999
1311.01            150.020
1311.02            150.021
1311.03            150.022
1311.04            150.023
1311.05            150.024
1311.06            150.025
1311.07            150.026
1311.99            150.999
1321.01            150.040
1321.02            150.041
1321.03            150.042
1321.04            150.043
1331.01            150.055
1331.02            150.056
1331.99            150.999
1341.01            151.01
1341.03            151.02;
                   151.03
1341.04            151.04
1341.05            151.05
1341.06            151.06;
                   151.99
1351.01            150.070
1351.02            150.071
1351.03            150.072
1351.04            150.073
1351.99            150.999
1361.01            150.085
1361.02            150.086
1361.03            150.087
1361.04            150.088
1361.05            150.089
1361.06            150.090
1361.07            150.091
1361.08            150.092
1361.09            150.093
1361.99            150.999
1371.01            150.105
1371.02            150.106
1371.03            150.107
1371.04            150.108
1371.05            150.109
1371.06            150.110
1371.07            150.111
1501.01            96.070
1501.02            96.071
1501.03            96.072
1501.04            96.073
1501.05            96.074
1501.07            96.075
1501.08            96.076
1501.09            96.077
1501.10            96.078
1501.11            96.079
1501.12            96.080
1501.99            96.999
1511.01            96.055
1511.02            96.056
1511.03            96.057
1511.04            96.058
1511.05            96.059
1511.99            96.999
1519.01            96.001
1519.02            96.003
1519.03            96.006
1519.04            96.002
1519.05            96.008
1519.99            96.999
1529.01            96.095
1529.02            96.096
1529.03            96.097
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
4-89     2-21-1989   31.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
3-1955    3-1-1955    32.30
9-55      12-27-1955  30.01
1-1963    1-7-1964    93.01—
                      93.11
11-71     8-17-1971   95.01
4-78      6-6-1978    95.02
4-81      4-8-1981    32.16
11-87     9-15-1987   36.040—
                      36.045
                      150.055;
27-89     12-5-1989   150.056;
                      150.999
3-90      1-16-1990   31.02
                      150.020—
18-91     3-20-1991   150.026;
                      150.999
93-06     3-16-1993   91.10
93-29     10-4-1993   132.16
94-20     10-4-1994   91.11
96-22     9-3-1996    93.12
97-17     5-20-1997   95.04
00-12     6-6-2000    30.04
                      94.01—
00-14     6-20-2000   94.09;
                      94.99
00-27     11-7-2000   90.41
01-06     6-19-2001   95.03
01-17     11-6-2001   90.39
01-18     11-6-2001   90.40
02-07     4-2-2002    31.23
02-13     6-4-2002    132.17
02-27     12-3-2002   31.24
03-08     2-18-2003   51.01—
                      51.10
04-06     4-20-2004   31.22
04-08     6-1-2004    150.040—
                      150.043
                      151.01—
05-15     3-1-2005    151.06;
                      151.99
O-5-23    9-20-2005   91.11
                      111.01—
06-21     6-20-2006   111.05;
                      111.99
07-9      10-16-2007  30.03
09-3      3-17-2009   110.15
09-5      4-7-2009    96.095—
                      96.097
09-6      5-6-2009    95.05
09-7      7-7-2009    151.01
O-12-1    7-3-2012    32.15
03-25(A)  7-15-2014   74.65;
                      76.14
                      36.001—
                      36.004;
O-15-32   10-6-2015   36.006—
                      36.026;
                      36.999
O-15-33   11-17-2015  50.01—
                      50.06
O-16-13   6-21-2016   30.05
16-30     9-20-2016   31.21
O-17-16   6-20-2017   35.01—
                      35.04
O-17-18   8-1-2017    93.10
O-17-25   10-3-2017   30.02
                      36.002;
O-17-34   12-19-2017  36.004;
                      36.005;
                      36.007
                      36.003;
O-18-29   1-3-2018    36.005;
                      36.027
O-18-12   8-21-2018   132.18;
                      132.19
                      152.001—
                      152.015;
                      152.030—
                      152.035;
                      152.050—
                      152.058;
                      152.070—152.074;
                      152.085—
                      152.089;
                      152.100;
                      152.101;
                      152.115—
                      152.150;
                      152.175;
                      152.190—
                      152.198;
O-18-20   11-20-2018  152.210;
                      152.211;
                      152.225—
                      152.228;
                      152.240—
                      152.248;
                      152.260—
                      152.264;
                      152.275—
                      152.282;
                      152.295—
                      152.306;
                      152.320—
                      152.327;
                      152.340—
                      152.345;
                      152.999
                      30.04;
                      31.03—
                      31.05;
                      32.01;
                      32.02;
                      32.31;
                      36.060—
                      36.071;
                      36.999;
                      37.01;
                      37.02;
                      93.10;
                      93.11;
                      93.99;
                      94.07;
                      95.05;
O-18-21   11-20-2018  110.01—
                      110.04;
                      110.45—
                      110.48;
                      110.60—
                      110.62;
                      110.99;
                      111.99;
                      132.18;
                      132.19;
                      150.070—
                      150.073;
                      150.085—
                      150.093;
                      150.105—
                      150.111;
                      150.999
O-19-3    2-5-2019    50.20—
                      50.29
O-19-11   6-4-2019    34.01—
                      34.20
O-19-18   6-4-2019    93.12
O-19-2015 6-18-2019   30.01
O-19-14   6-18-2019   30.02
O-19-31   12-27-2019  30.05
O-19-33   1-21-2020   95.05
O-20-02   2-4-2020    34.03;
                      34.17
O-19-34   3-19-2020   152.014
O-20-06   4-7-2020    34.17
O-20-05   6-2-2020    90.42
O-20-08   6-2-2020    34.17
O-20-11   6-16-2020   30.02
O-20-16   8-18-2020   34.13
O-20-19   9-15-2020   34.17
O-20-21   9-15-2020   137.09
O-21-04   3-16-2021   30.02
O-21-08   5-6-2021    137.16
O-21-09   6-1-2021    136.22
O-21-28   11-16-2021  34.13
O-22-06   3-15-2022   31.02
                      34.13;
                      34.15;
                      93.02;
                      93.04;
O-22-07   3-15-2022   93.07;
                      93.12;
                      152.051;
                      152.136;
                      152.228
O-22-13   7-5-2022    95.05
O-23-02   3-21-2023   34.20
O-23-10   4-18-2023   152.210
O-23-11   4-18-2023   152.130
O-23-12   4-18-2023   152.085—
                      152.087
O-23-05   5-16-2023   93.02—
                      93.04
O-23-15   6-20-2023   34.20
                      36.003;
O-23-27   12-19-2023  36.005;
                      36.018
O-24-02   5-21-2024   152.059
O-24-03   5-21-2024   93.03
                      110.30;
O-24-12   9-3-2024    110.31;
                      110.99
                     
 
 
