EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Supplement 2020 S-3 contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 17-20, passed 6-2-2020
State legislation current through 12-31-2018
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND
   Editor’s note: The East Cleveland Charter was originally adopted on June 6,
1916, and became effective January 1, 1918. Dates appearing in parentheses
following a section heading indicate that those provisions were subsequently
adopted, amended or repealed or replaced on the date given.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Corporate Powers, Rights and Privileges
1   Name and powers
2   Enumerated powers not exclusive
The Commission
3   Powers (5-7-85)
4   Term of office (5-7-85)
5   Qualification of members (5-7-85)
6   Vacancies (5-7-85)
7   Salary (5-7-85)
8   President (5-7-85)
9   Appointees (5-7-85)
10   Time of meeting (5-7-85)
11   Penalty for absence (5-7-85)
12   Legislative procedure (5-7-85)
13   Ordinance enactment (5-7-85)
14   Emergency measures (5-7-85)
15   Record and publication (5-7-85)
16   Price and mode of publication (5-7-85)
17   Salaries and bonds (5-7-85)
18   General disqualifications (5-7-85)
The City Manager
19   Appointment (5-7-85)
20   Powers and duties
21   Vice-Manager (5-7-85)
Administrative Officers and Departments
22   Departments
23   Directors (7-31-12)
24   Mayor as acting department head
Municipal Court
25   (5-6-52)
26   (5-6-52)
27   (5-6-52)
Civil Service
28   The Civil Service Commission
29   Classification
30   Appointments and removals
30-A   Residence requirements; officers and employees (11-5-96)
31   Relief of policemen and firemen
Elections
32   Time of holding elections (11-3-31)
33   Ballots (11-7-00)
33-A   Voting machines (5-6-52)
34   Nomination by petition (5-7-85)
34-A   Balloting for armed forces (11-7-00)
35   Acceptance (6-5-45)
36   Elections (11-7-00)
36-A   Women's suffrage (11-7-00)
37   State law provisions (11-7-00)
The Initiative
38   Proposed petition
39   Time of filing
40   Petition for election
41   Time of holding election
42   Ballots
43   Duty of Director of Law (11 -7-00)
The Referendum
44   Petition for referendum
45   Proceedings thereunder
46   Legislation for improvements (11-7-00)
47   Initiated ordinances subject to referendum; conflict
The Recall
48   Application (11-7-00)
49   Recall procedure (11-7-00; 7-19-16)
50   How procured
51   Signatures, requirements of
52   Filing
53   Notice (11-8-77)
54   Recall election
55   Rotary ballots
56   Filling of vacancies
57   Counting the vote
58   Effect of resignations
59   Miscellaneous provisions
Appropriations
60   The estimate
61   Appropriation ordinance
61-F   Limitation on rate of taxation (11-4-69)
62   Transfer of funds (4-29-24)
63   Unencumbered balances
64   Payment of claims
65   Certification of funds
66   Money in the funds
67   Financial reports
68   Sinking funds (4-29-24)
Improvements - Contracts
69   Limitation of assessments
70   Sewer, water and gas connections
71   Street sprinkling and cleaning sidewalks
72   Contracts (11-8-77)
73   Time of making contracts
74   Bids in excess of estimate
75   Contracts - when void
Franchises
76   Grants limited
77   Period of grants
78   Assignment
79   Extension by annexation
80   Consents
81   Regulations
82   Forfeitures
83   Paving and sprinkling
84   Accounts and reports
85   Grants not included
85-A   City Planning Commission (11-7-72)
85-B   Districting or zoning (11-7-72)
86   General provisions
Miscellaneous Provisions
87   General laws to apply (5-6-52)
88   Ordinances continued in force
89   Continuance of present officers
90   Continuance of contracts and vested rights
91   Investigation
92   Oath of office
93   Hours of labor
94   Amendments (11-7-72)
94-A   Charter Review Commission (5-7-85)
95   Saving clause
96   When charter takes effect
 
Abolishment of the Commission and Office of City Manager
97   Abolishment of City Commission and office of City Manager (5-7-85)
The Council
98   The Council; powers; election and term of office (11-7-00)
99   Qualification of members (5-3-88)
100   Vacancy (5-7-85)
101   Salary (5-7-85)
102   Organization of Council (11-7-00)
103   Time of meetings; public meetings; exceptions (11-6-90)
104   Penalty for absence (5-7-85)
105   Legislative procedure (5-7-85)
106   Ordinance enactment (5-7-85)
107   Emergency measures (5-7-85)
108   Record and publication (11-7-00)
109   Price and mode of publication (5-7-85)
110   Salaries and bonds (5-7-85)
111   General disqualifications (5-7-85)
The Mayor
112   Mayor; qualifications and term of office (11-7-00)
113   Powers of the Mayor (11-7-00)
114   Vacancy (11-7-00)
Nominations and Elections
115   Nomination and election procedures (6-6-89; 11-6-90; 11-5-96; 11-5-02; 7-
31-12; 7-19-16)
116   First election; recall (5-7-85)
Auditing Procedure
117   Auditing procedures (5-7-85)
Miscellaneous Provisions
118   Charter Review Commission (5-7-85)
119   Acting Mayor and Council; ordinances continued in force (5-7-85)
120   Repealed sections (5-7-85)
121   Savings clause (5-7-85)
122   Effective date of amendments (5-7-85)
123   Effective date of amendments (6-6-89)
Appendix A Repealed Charter Sections
CORPORATE POWERS, RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
§ 1  NAME AND POWERS.
   The inhabitants of the City of East Cleveland, as its limits now are, or may
hereafter be, shall be a body politic and corporate and by name the City of
East Cleveland, and as such shall have perpetual succession; may use a
corporate seal; may sue and be sued; may acquire property in fee simple or
lesser interests or estate by purchase, gift, devise appropriation, lease, or
lease with the privilege to purchase for any municipal purpose; may sell,
lease, hold, manage, and control such property, and make any and all rules and
regulations by ordinance or resolution which may be required to carry out fully
all the provisions of any conveyance, deed, or will, in relation to any gift or
bequest or the provisions of any lease by which it may acquire property; may
acquire, construct, own, lease and operate and regulate public utilities; may
assess, levy and collect taxes for general and special purposes on all the
subjects or objects which the city may lawfully tax; may borrow money on the
faith and credit of the city by the issue or sale of bonds or notes of the
city; may appropriate the money of the city for all lawful purposes; may
create, provide for, construct, regulate and maintain all things of the nature
of public works and improvements; may levy and collect assessments for local
improvements; may define, prohibit, abate, suppress and prevent all things
detrimental to the health, morals, comfort, safety, convenience and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, and all nuisances and causes thereof; may regulate
the construction, height, and the material used in all buildings, and the
maintenance and occupancy thereof; may regulate the construction, location,
size, height, and the materials used in all billboards, and the maintenance and
use of the same; may regulate and control the use, for whatever purposes, of
the streets and other public places; may create, establish, organize and
abolish offices and fix the salaries and compensation of all officers and
employees; may make and enforce local police, sanitary and other regulations;
and may pass such ordinances as may be expedient for maintaining and promoting
the peace, good government and welfare of the city, and for the performance of
the functions thereof. The city shall have all powers that now are, or
hereafter may be granted to municipalities by the Constitution or laws of Ohio;
and all such powers, whether expressed or implied, shall be exercised and
enforced in the manner prescribed by this Charter, or when not prescribed
herein, in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance or resolution of the
Council.
§ 2  ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein,
implied thereby or appropriate to the exercise thereof, the city shall have,
and may exercise, all other powers which, under the Constitution and laws of
Ohio, it would be competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
THE COMMISSION
§ 3  POWERS.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 4  TERM OF OFFICE.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 5  QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 6  VACANCIES.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 7  SALARY.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 8  PRESIDENT.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 9  APPOINTEES.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 10  TIME OF MEETING.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 11  PENALTY FOR ABSENCE.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 12  LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 13  ORDINANCE ENACTMENT.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 14  EMERGENCY MEASURES.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 15  RECORD AND PUBLICATION.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 16  PRICE AND MODE OF PUBLICATION.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 17  SALARIES AND BONDS.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 18  GENERAL DISQUALIFICATIONS.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
THE CITY MANAGER
§ 19  APPOINTMENT.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
§ 20  POWERS AND DUTIES.
(Repealed by implication 5-7-85)
§ 21  VICE-MANAGER.
(Repealed 5-7-85.)
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 22  DEPARTMENTS.
   The following administrative departments are hereby established: (1)
Department of Law. (2) Department of Public Service. (3) Department of Public
Safety. (4) Department of Finance. (5) Department of Public Health. The Council
shall determine and prescribe the functions and duties of each department and
by vote of four of its members and may create new departments, combine or
abolish existing departments, and establish temporary departments for special
work.
§ 23  DIRECTORS.
   There shall be a director of each department who shall have the supervision
and control thereof, who shall be immediately responsible to the Mayor for the
administration of the department. The Director of Public Health shall be a
physician, who shall have been duly admitted to practice in the State of Ohio,
and who shall have been engaged in the active practice of medicine continuously
for a period of three years next preceding his appointment. The Director of Law
shall be an attorney-at-law, who shall have been duly admitted to practice in
the State of Ohio, and who shall have engaged in the active practice of law
continuously for a period of three years next preceding his appointment.
   The Director of Law and the Director of Finance shall be appointed by the
Mayor, but such appointments must be confirmed by at least three-fifths of the
Council. The Director of Law or the Director of Finance may be removed by the
Mayor, provided the removal is confirmed by at least three-fifths of the
Council.
(Ord. 75-12, passed 7-31-2012)
§ 24  MAYOR AS ACTING DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   Excepting the departments of Law, Finance and Health, the Mayor shall be the
acting head of each and every department of the city until otherwise provided
by the Council.
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 25.
(Repealed 5-6-52.)
§ 26.
(Repealed 5-6-52.)
§ 27.
(Repealed 5-6-52.)
CIVIL SERVICE
§ 28  THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Civil Service Commission consisting of three members, who
are qualified electors of the city, not more than two of whom shall belong to
the same political party, who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval and confirmation of the Council. Of the members first appointed, one
shall hold office for a term of two years; one for a term of four years; and
the other for a term of six years; and their successors shall be appointed for
terms of six years. The Mayor shall fill all vacancies by appointment for the
unexpired term, subject to the approval and confirmation of the Council. The
Mayor may at any time remove any civil service commissioner for inefficiency,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, having first given to such
commissioner a copy of the charges against him and an opportunity to be
publicly heard in person or by counsel in his own defense; and any such removal
shall be final.
§ 29  CLASSIFICATION.
   The civil service of the city is hereby divided into the unclassified and
the classified service.
   The unclassified service shall include:
      (1)   All officers elected by the people.
      (2)   The Mayor, and all directors of departments.
      (3)   The members of all boards or commissions appointed by the Council
or the Mayor.
      (4)   The Clerk of Council, and such other offices and positions as may
be determined and prescribed by the Council.
   The classified service shall consist of the police, sanitary police, and
fire forces of the city, and such other offices and positions as shall be
determined and prescribed by the Council, except as hereinbefore provided.
§ 30  APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   Appointments and promotions in the classified civil service of the city
shall be made according to merit and fitness, to be ascertained by competitive
examinations.
   No officer or employee in the classified service shall be demoted or removed
except for cause and after hearing, and the Council shall provide by ordinance
for the enforcement of this provision and also for appeals to the Civil Service
Commission from suspensions, demotions and removals by the Mayor. Except as
herein otherwise provided, ordinances shall be passed to fix the powers and
duties of the Civil Service Commission and to prescribe rules and regulations
governing the classified civil service.
§ 30-A  RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS; OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   Except as in this Charter otherwise provided or except as otherwise
provided by a majority vote of the Council of the City of East Cleveland, every
regular officer or employee of the City of East Cleveland, including members of
all city boards and commissions established by the Charter or ordinances of
East Cleveland, whether in the classified or unclassified service of the City
of East Cleveland, appointed after the effective date of this amendment, shall,
at the time of his appointment, or within six months thereafter, be or become a
bona fide resident of the City of East Cleveland, and shall remain as such
during his term of office or while employed by the City of East Cleveland.
   (b)   No person shall, in any way, falsify or misstate verbally or in
writing any application, paper, document or form, which relates to his
employment with the city, that he is a resident of the City of East Cleveland,
when in fact he is not a bona fide resident of the City of East Cleveland. Any
officer or employee of the City of East Cleveland who is found to have supplied
or furnished such false or misleading information concerning his true residence
or who fails to become a resident as herein required, or who, being a resident
or having become a resident outside of the city, subsequently establishes a
residence outside of the city, shall, after notice and hearing, according to
law, be discharged from service with the city.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any officer or
employee on the payroll of the City of East Cleveland on the effective date of
this section.
   (d)   If in the event an employee did not move within the stated time, and
the Mayor decides to exempt the employee, the Mayor shall provide the reasons
for exemption to Council for approval. It shall be the responsibility of
Council to either approve or disapprove any request for exemption. In the event
that the Council determines to deny the exemption, the employee shall be
discharged from service with the city, after notice and hearing, according to
law.
(Added 11-5-96.)
   (Editor’s note: The Ohio Supreme Court in City of Lima v. State of Ohio
(2009), 122 Ohio St. 3d 155, held that a state statute prohibiting political
subdivisions from requiring employees to live within the limits of the
municipality overrides local legislation imposing such requirements.)
§ 31  RELIEF OF POLICEMEN AND FIREMEN.
   The Council may provide by ordinance for the relief, out of the police or
fire funds, of members of the police, fire and sanitary forces temporarily or
permanently disabled in the discharge of duty. Nothing in this section shall
impair, restrict or repeal any provision of general law authorizing the levying
of taxes to provide for firemen, police and sanitary police pension funds, and
to create and perpetuate boards of trustees for the administration of such
funds.
ELECTIONS
§ 32  TIME OF HOLDING ELECTIONS.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday, in November in the odd numbered years. Any matter which, by the
terms of the Charter, may be submitted to the electors of the city at any
special election may be submitted at a regular municipal election or at any
general or primary election.
(Amended 11-3-31)
§ 33  BALLOTS.
   The ballots used in all elections provided for in this Charter shall be
paper ballots, or mechanical, or other devices for voting not inconsistent with
the general election laws of the State of Ohio.
   The ballots used in all elections provided for in this Charter shall be
without party marks or designations. The names of all candidates for any office
shall be placed upon the same ballot and the names shall be rotated in the
manner provided by the laws of the State of Ohio.
   The full name of all candidates shall be printed on the ballots. If two or
more candidates for the same office have the same surname or surnames similar
as likely to cause confusion, their residence addresses shall be printed with
their names on the ballot. (Amended 11-7-00)
§ 33-A  VOTING MACHINES.
(Repealed 5-6-52)
§ 34  NOMINATION BY PETITION.
(Repealed 5-7-85)
§ 34-A  BALLOTING FOR ARMED FORCES.
   A member of the Armed Forces of the United States or a member of his family
shall be entitled to vote in accordance with and pursuant to the procedures of
the general election laws of the State of Ohio.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 35  ACCEPTANCE.
   (This section is no longer operative inasmuch as its provisions are
superseded by Ordinance No. 3964, adopted June 5, 1945, pursuant to Section
34-A of this Charter. The provisions of Ordinance No. 3964 are as follows:
   Any person whose name has been submitted for candidacy by any such petition
shall file his acceptance of such candidacy with the election authorities not
later than ninety (90) days previous to such election; otherwise, his name
shall not appear upon the ballot.)
§ 36  ELECTIONS.
   (Editor’s note: The provisions of § 36 were repealed on November 7, 2000.)
§ 36-A  WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE.
   (Editor’s note: The provisions of
Section 36-A were repealed on November 7, 2000.)
§ 37  STATE LAW PROVISIONS.
   All elections shall be conducted and the result canvassed and certified by
the election authorities prescribed by general laws, and all other matters
relating to primaries and elections, not herein, or by ordinance of the Council
specifically provided for shall be determined by the general election laws of
the State.
(Amended 11-7-00)
THE INITIATIVE
§ 38  PROPOSED PETITION.
   Any proposed ordinance, including any ordinance for the repeal or amendment
of an ordinance than in effect, may be submitted to the Council by petition
signed by at least fifteen percent of the total number of voters voting at the
last regular election of municipal officers. All petitions circulated with
respect to any proposed ordinance shall be uniform in character, shall contain
the proposed ordinance in full, and shall have printed or written thereon the
names and addresses of at least five electors who shall be officially regarded
as filing the petition and shall constitute a committee of the petitioners for
the purpose hereinafter named.
   Each signer of a petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil and
shall place on the petition, opposite his name, the date of his signature and
his place of residence by street and number. The signatures to any such
petition need not all be appended to one paper, but to each such paper there
shall be attached an affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers to such part of the petition and that each signature appended to the
paper is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be, and
that it was made in the presence of the affiant and on the date indicated.
§ 39  TIME OF FILING.
   All papers comprising a petition shall be assembled and filed with the Clerk
of the Council as one instrument, within one hundred and twenty (120) days from
the date of the first signature thereon, and when so filed, the Clerk shall
submit the same to the Council at its next regular meeting and provision shall
be made for public hearings upon the proposed ordinance.
§ 40  PETITION FOR ELECTION.
   The Council shall at once proceed to consider such petition and shall take
final action thereon within thirty days from the date of submission. If the
Council rejects the proposed ordinance, or passes it in a different form from
that set forth in the petition, or fails to act finally upon it within the time
stated, the committee of the petitioners, by written demand filed with the
Clerk of the Council not later than twenty days after final action or in action
by the Council, may require that the proposed ordinance be submitted to a vote
of the electors in its original form if, with or prior to such demand, a
petition for such election, signed after the final action or inaction of the
Council is filed with such Clerk bearing additional signature of five percent
of the electors of the city, none of whom were signers of the first petition.
Such Clerk shall forthwith cause notice of the filing of such demand and
petition to be published in some newspaper of general circulation in the city,
and shall also within five days certify to the officers having control of
elections the proposed ordinance, stating whether or not a special election is
demanded in the petitions, the percentage of voters who voted at the last
election of municipal officers who signed the two petitions in the aggregate,
and the date on which he published the notice last mentioned.
§ 41  TIME OF HOLDING ELECTION.
   If an election is to be held not more than three months nor less than thirty
days after the publication of such notice by the Clerk, such proposed ordinance
shall be submitted to a vote of the electors at such election. If no election
is to be held within the time aforesaid, the election officers shall provide
for submitting the proposed ordinance to the electors at a special election to
be held not later than sixty days nor earlier than thirty days after the
publication of such notice, if the petition for such ordinance and the petition
for such election so demand, and if the signers of the two petitions amount in
the aggregate to at least twenty-five percent of the total number of voters
voting at the last regular election of municipal officers, otherwise the same
shall be submitted at the next regular or special election. At least ten days
before any such election, the Clerk of the Council shall cause such proposed
ordinance to be published.
§ 42  BALLOTS.
   The ballots used when voting upon any such proposed ordinance shall state
the title of the ordinance to be voted on and below it the two propositions,
“For the Ordinance” and “Against the Ordinance.” Immediately at the left of
each proposition there shall be a square in which by making a cross (X) the
voter may vote for or against the proposed ordinance. If a majority of the
electors voting on any such proposed ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, it
shall thereupon become an ordinance of the city.
§ 43  DUTY OF DIRECTOR OF LAW.
   Before any petitioner proposed ordinance is submitted to Council, it may
first be submitted to the Director of Law, whose duty it shall be to draft such
proposed ordinance in proper legal language, and to render such other service
to persons desiring to propose such ordinance as shall be necessary to make the
same proper for consideration by the Council.
(Amended 11-7-00)
THE REFERENDUM
§ 44  PETITION FOR REFERENDUM.
   No ordinance or resolution passed by the Council, unless it be an emergency
measure or the annual appropriation ordinance, shall go into effect until
thirty days after its final passage. If, at any time within said thirty days a
petition signed by fifteen percent of the total number of voters voting at the
last regular election of municipal officers be filed with the Clerk of the
Council, requesting that any such ordinance or resolution be submitted to the
electors of the city for their approval or rejection, it shall not become
operative until the steps indicated herein have been taken. Such petition shall
have stated therein the names and addresses of at least five electors as a
committee to represent the petitioners.
   Referendum petitions need not contain the text of the ordinance or
resolution the repeal of which is sought, but shall be subject in all other
respects to the requirements for petitions submitting proposed ordinances and
resolutions to be Council members. Ballots used in referendum elections shall
conform in all respects to those provided for in
Section 42 of this Charter.
§ 45  PROCEEDINGS THEREUNDER.
   The Clerk of the Council shall, at its next meeting, present the petition to
the Council, which shall proceed to reconsider the ordinance or resolution. If,
within thirty days after the filing of such petition, the ordinance or
resolution be not repealed or amended as requested by said petition, the
Council shall provide for submitting same to a vote of the electors, provided a
majority of the Committee named in the petition to represent the petitioners
shall by writing filed with the Clerk of the Council within twenty days after
the expiration of the said thirty days, so required. In so doing the Council
shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 41 hereof respecting the time of submission and the manner of voting on
ordinances proposed to the Council by petition; excepting that the question of
calling a special election for such purpose shall be determined by the demand
and number of signers of the petition requesting the repeal or amendment of
such ordinance or resolution, which number shall be twenty-five (25) percent of
the total number of voters voting at the last regular election of municipal
officers; and, excepting further, that the Council may call, and fix the time
for a special election for such purpose, if in its judgment the public interest
will be prejudiced by delay. If when submitted to vote at such election any
such ordinance or resolution be not approved by a majority of those voting
thereon, it shall be deemed repealed. Such ordinance or resolution shall not be
considered as repealed unless the total number of votes cast upon the ordinance
or resolution shall be equal to twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of
voters voting at the last regular election of municipal officers. Nothing in
this section shall prevent the Council, after the passage of any ordinance or
resolution, from proceeding at once to give notice or make any publication
required by such ordinance or resolution.
§ 46  LEGISLATION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever the Council is by law required to pass more than one ordinance or
resolution to complete legislation necessary to make and pay for any public
improvements, the provisions of
Section 38 to
47 of this Charter shall apply only to the first ordinance or resolution
relating thereto. Ordinances or resolutions providing for the current expenses
of the city, or for street improvements petitioned for by a majority of the
owners of the property benefited and to be specially assessed for the cost
thereof as provided by law, and emergency ordinances or resolutions shall go
into immediate effect. Such emergency ordinance or resolution must receive an
affirmative vote of four members of the Council, and the reason for such
necessity shall be set forth in one section of the ordinance or resolution.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 47  INITIATED ORDINANCES SUBJECT TO REFERENDUM; CONFLICT.
   Ordinances submitted to the Council by initiative petition and passed by the
Council without change, or passed in an amended form and not required to be
submitted to a vote of the electors by the committee of the petitioners shall
be subject to the referendum in the same manner as other ordinances. If the
provisions of two or more ordinances adopted or approved at the same election
conflict, the ordinance or resolution receiving the highest affirmative vote
shall prevail.
THE RECALL
§ 48  APPLICATION.
   (Editor’s note: The provisions of Section 48 were repealed on November 7,
2000.)
§ 49  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   The procedure to effect the removal of any elected officer of the city shall
be initiated by the filing of a petition, with the Clerk of the Council,
demanding that the question of removing such officer or officers be submitted
to the electors. Such petition shall be signed by the electors of the
Municipality who voted in the last regular election of each municipal officer
whose recall is sought, respectively, equal in number to at least twenty-five
(25) percent of the total number voting at the last regular election of each
such municipal officer in which his or her office is contested but all
signatures to such petition need not be appended to one paper.
(Amended 11-7-00; Ord. 06-16, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 50  HOW PROCURED.
   Petition papers shall be procured only from the Clerk of the Council, who
shall keep a sufficient number of such blank petitions on file for distribution
as herein provided. Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit
shall be made by one or more qualified electors and filed with the Clerk of
Council, stating the name of the member or members of the Council, whose
removal is sought. The Clerk of the Council, upon issuing any such petition
papers to an elector, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his office, the
name of the elector to whom issued, the date of such issuance and the number of
papers issued and shall certify on each paper the name of the elector to whom
issued and the date of issue. No petition paper shall be accepted as part of
the petition unless it is so issued and bear such certificate and unless it be
filed as provided herein.
§ 51  SIGNATURES, REQUIREMENTS OF.
   Each signer of a recall petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible
pencil and shall place after his name his place of residence by street and
number. To each such petition paper there shall be attached an affidavit of the
circulator thereof, stating the number of signers to such part of the petition,
and that each signature appended to the paper was made in his presence and is
the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be.
§ 52  FILING.
   All papers comprising a recall petition shall be assembled and filed with
the Clerk of the Council, as one instrument, within thirty days after the
filing with the Clerk of the Council of the affidavit stating the name of the
member or members of Council whose removal is sought.
§ 53  NOTICE.
   At the expiration of said period of thirty days, the Clerk of the Council
shall certify upon such petition whether the signature of electors thereto
amount in number to at least twenty-five (25) percent of the voters voting at
the last regular municipal election of officers. If such signatures do amount
to such percent, he shall at once serve notice of that fact upon the member or
members of the Council designated in the petition, and also deliver to the
election authorities a copy of the original petition with his certificate as to
the percentage of voters voting at the last regular municipal election of
officers who signed the same, and a certificate as to the date of his said
notice to the member or members of the Council designated in the petition.
(Amended 11-8-77)
§ 54  RECALL ELECTION.
   If a member or members of the Council, or any of them, designate in the
petition, file with the Clerk of the Council within five days after said notice
from the Clerk of the Council, his or their written resignation, the same shall
be irrevocable and the Clerk of the Council shall at once notify the election
authorities of the fact and the election authorities shall forthwith order and
fix a day for holding a recall election for the removal of those not resigning.
Such election shall be held not less than sixty nor more than ninety days after
the expiration of the period of five days last mentioned, at the same time as
any other general or special election held within such period; but if no
general or special election be held within such period, the election
authorities shall call a special recall election.
§ 55  ROTARY BALLOTS.
   The ballots at such recall election shall conform to the following
requirements: With respect to each person whose removal is sought, the question
shall be submitted: “Shall (name of person) be removed from the office of
Member of the Council by recall?” Immediately following each such question
there shall be printed on the ballots the two propositions:
   “For the recall of (name of person).”
   “Against the recall of (name of person).”
   Provided that rotating ballots, as provided in
Section 33, shall be used in such recall elections, in so far as the provisions
of said
Section 33 are applicable thereto.
   Immediately to the left of each of the propositions shall be placed a square
in which the electors, by making a cross mark (X), may vote for either of such
propositions.
§ 56  FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   In any such election, if a majority of the votes cast on the question of
removal of any member of the Council are affirmative, the person whose removal
is sought shall thereupon be deemed removed from office upon the certification
of the official canvass of that election to the Council and the vacancy caused
by such recall shall be filled by the remainder of the Council according to the
provisions of
Section 6 of this Charter.
   If, however, an election is held for the recall of more than three members
of the Council, candidates to succeed them for their unexpired terms shall be
voted upon at the same election, and shall be nominated by petitions signed,
dated and verified in the manner required for petitions presenting names of
candidates for regular municipal elections and similar in form to such
petitions, and filed with the election authorities at least thirty days prior
to such recall election. But no such nominating petition shall be signed or
circulated until after the time has expired for signing the copies of the
petition for the recall, and any signatures thereon antedating such time shall
not be counted.
§ 57  COUNTING THE VOTE.
   Candidates shall not be nominated to succeed any particular member of the
Council; but if only one member of the Council is removed at such election, the
candidate at such election receiving the highest number of votes shall be
declared elected to fill the vacancy; and if more than one member of the
Council is removed at such election, such candidates receiving the highest
number of votes equal in number to the number of members of the Council removed
shall be declared elected to fill the vacancies; and among the successful
candidates, those receiving the greater number of votes shall be declared
elected for the longer terms.
§ 58  EFFECT OF RESIGNATIONS.
   No proceedings for the recall of more than three members of the Council at
the same election shall be defeated in whole or in part by the resignation of
any or all of them, but upon the resignation of any of them the Council shall
have power to fill the vacancy until a successor is elected, and the
proceedings for the recall and the election of successors shall continue and
have the same effect as though there had been no resignation.
§ 59  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   Except as herein otherwise provided, no petition to recall any member of the
Council shall be filed within six months after he takes office. No person
removed by recall shall be eligible to be elected or appointed to the Council
for a period of two years after the date of such recall. The Clerk of the
Council shall preserve in his office all papers comprising or connected with a
petition for a recall. The method of removal herein provided is in addition to
such other methods as are, or may be, provided by general law.
APPROPRIATIONS
§ 60  THE ESTIMATE.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of January of each
year. On or before the 15th day of November of each year, the Mayor shall
submit to the Council an estimate of the expenditures and revenues of the city
departments for the ensuing year. This estimate shall be compiled from detailed
information obtained from the several departments on uniform blanks to be
furnished by the Mayor and approved by the Council. The classification of the
estimate of expenditures shall be as nearly uniform as possible for the main
functional divisions of all departments, and shall give the following
information:
   (a)   A detailed estimate of the expense of conducting each department, as
submitted by the department over the signature of the director thereof.
   (b)   Expenditures for corresponding items for the last two fiscal years.
   (c)   Expenditures for corresponding items for the current fiscal year
including adjustments due to transfers between appropriations, plus an estimate
of expenditures necessary to complete the current fiscal year.
   (d)   Reasons for proposed increase or decrease in such items of expenditure
compared with the current fiscal year.
   (e)   A detailed inventory of supplies and material on hand and the value
thereof at the date of the preparation of the invoice.
   (f)   A separate schedule for each department showing the things necessary
for the department to do during the year, and which of any desirable things it
ought to do if possible.
   (g)   Increase or decrease of requests compared with corresponding
appropriations for the current fiscal year.
   (h)   A statement for the Director of Finance of the total probable income
of the city from taxes for the period covered by the Mayor’s estimate.
   (i)   An itemization of all anticipated revenue from services other than tax
levy.
   (j)   The amounts required for interest on the city’s debt and for sinking
funds as required by law.
   (k)   The total amount of outstanding city debt with a schedule of
maturities of bond issues.
   (l)   Such other information as is required by the Council or that the Mayor
may deem advisable to submit.
   (m)   The recommendation of the Mayor as to the amounts to be appropriated
with reasons thereof in such detail as the Council may direct.
   The Mayor shall submit the estimate proper to the Council and at least three
hundred copies thereof shall be printed, for distribution to citizens who may
call for them. Copies of the estimate shall also be furnished to the newspapers
of the city and to the two newspapers having the largest circulation in
Cuyahoga County, and the public library in the City of East Cleveland.
§ 61  APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   Upon receipt of such estimate, the Council shall at once prepare an
appropriation ordinance, in such manner as may be provided by ordinance or
resolution, using the Mayor’s estimate as a basis. Provision shall be made for
public hearings upon the appropriation ordinance before a committee of the
whole, and public notice shall be given of such hearing. The Council shall not
pass the appropriation ordinance until ten days after such public hearing nor
before the first Monday in January.
   Section 61-A contained in Ordinance No. 3340, adopted by vote 8-9-38, no
longer effective.
   Section 61-B contained in Ordinance No. 3534, adopted by vote 5-14-40, no
longer effective.
   Section 61-C contained in Ordinance No. 3873, adopted by vote 5-9-44, no
longer effective.
   Section 61-C contained in Ordinance No. 4017, adopted by vote 5-7-46, no
longer effective.
   Section 61-D contained in Ordinance No. 4475, adopted by vote 11-7-50, no
longer effective.
   Section 61-E contained in Ordinance No. 5535, adopted by vote 5-5-64.
§ 61-F  LIMITATION ON RATE OF TAXATION.
   The aggregate amount of taxes that may be levied by the Council of the City
of East Cleveland without a vote of the people on any taxable property assessed
and listed for taxation according to value for all purposes of the City of East
Cleveland, shall not in any one year exceed twelve and seven-tenths (12.7)
mills for each one dollar ($1.00) of assessed valuation. Of said total maximum
levy, an amount shall first be annually levied sufficient to pay the interest,
sinking fund and retirement charges on all notes and bonds of the city issued
without the authority of the electors, and then an amount shall be levied
annually sufficient to pay the costs of, and the accrued liabilities on, the
Police and Firemen’s Disability and Pension Funds, but not to exceed in any
year six-tenths (0.6) mills per one dollar ($1.00) of assessed valuation. Of
the remaining portion of said total maximum levy, an amount not to exceed two
(2.0) mills may annually be levied to provide funds for the construction,
improvement or acquisition of permanent improvements as now defined in Section
133.01 of the Revised Code of Ohio, and the balance thereof not to exceed ten
and one-tenth (10.1) mills may annually be levied for the purpose of paying the
current operating expenses of the city. The limitations of this section shall
apply only to taxes levied on property in the City of East Cleveland listed and
assessed for taxation according to value and shall not be construed as limiting
the power of the Council to levy, without a vote of the electors, any other
taxes now or hereafter authorized by the Charter of the City of East Cleveland
or the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
(Amended 11-4-69)
§ 62  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Upon request of the Mayor, the Council may transfer any part of an
unencumbered balance of an appropriation to a purpose or object for which the
appropriation for the current year has proved insufficient, or may authorize a
transfer of money to be made between items appropriated to the same office or
department.
   By the votes of three-fourths of all the members elected thereto, the
Council may at any time transfer all or a portion of one fund, or a balance
remaining therein, to the credit of one or more funds, whether such funds were
raised by taxation or otherwise; provided, however, that transfers from funds
raised by a special levy, bond issued or loan, may be made for temporary
purposes only, and, when such temporary purposes have been accomplished, the
amount of such temporary transfer shall be returned to the original fund from
which the transfer was made.
(Amended 4-29-24)
§ 63  UNENCUMBERED BALANCES.
   At the close of each fiscal year, the unencumbered balance of each
appropriation shall revert to the respective fund from which it was
appropriated and shall be subject to future appropriation. Any accruing revenue
of the city not appropriated as hereinbefore provided, and any balances at any
time remaining after the purposes of appropriation shall have been satisfied or
abandoned, may be from time to time appropriated by the Council to such uses as
will not conflict with any uses from which such revenues specifically accrued.
No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city nor shall any obligation
for the expenditure of money be incurred except pursuant to the appropriations
made by the Council.
§ 64  PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   No warrant for the payment of any claim shall be issued by the Director of
Finance until such claim shall have been approved by the director of the
department for which the indebtedness was incurred and by the Mayor. And such
officers and their sureties shall be liable to the Municipality for all loss or
damage sustained by the Municipality by reason of the corrupt approval of any
such claim against the Municipality. Whenever any claim shall be presented to
the Director of Finance, he shall have power to require evidence that the
amount claimed is justly due and is in conformity to law and ordinance and for
that purpose he may summon before him any officer, agent or employee of any
department of the Municipality, or any other person, and examine him upon oath
or affirmation relative thereto.
§ 65  CERTIFICATION OF FUNDS.
   No contract, agreement or other obligation involving the expenditure of
money shall be entered into, nor shall any ordinance, resolution or order for
the expenditure of money be issued by the Council, or be authorized by any
officer of the city, unless the Mayor and Director of Finance shall first
certify in writing to the Council or to the proper officer, as the case may be,
that the money required for such contract, agreement, obligation or expenditure
is in the treasury, to the credit of the fund from which it is to be drawn, and
not appropriated for any other purpose, which certificate shall be filed and
immediately recorded. The sum so certified shall not thereafter be considered
unappropriated until the city is discharged from the contract, agreement or
obligation.
§ 66  MONEY IN THE FUNDS.
   All moneys actually in the treasury to the credit of the fund from which
they are to be drawn, and all moneys applicable to the payment of the
obligation or appropriation involved that are anticipated to come into the
treasury before the maturity of such contract, agreement, or obligation, from
taxes, assessments or license fees or from sales of services, products or by-
products of any city undertaking, and moneys to be derived from lawfully
authorized bonds sold and in process of delivery, for the purpose of such
certificate shall be deemed in the treasury to the credit of the appropriate
fund and shall be subject to such certification.
§ 67  FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The Council shall have furnished them on the first day of each calendar
month a monthly balance sheet showing in detail all receipts and expenditures
of the city for the preceding calendar month, and the aggregate receipts and
expenditures of each department shall be published by the Council in such
manner as to provide full publicity. At the end of each fiscal year, the
Council shall have printed an annual report in pamphlet form giving a
classified statement of receipts, expenditures and liabilities of the city; a
detailed comparison of such receipts and expenditures with those of the fiscal
year preceding; a summary of the proceedings of the Council and a summary of
the operations of the administrative departments for the previous twelve
calendar months, a copy of this report shall be furnished the State Bureau of
Accounting, the Public Library and any citizen of the city who may apply
therefor at the office of the Director of Finance.
§ 68  SINKING FUNDS.
   The Sinking Fund Commission shall consist of the President of the Council
and two other citizens to be appointed by the Council. The President of the
Council shall be the president, and the Director of Finance shall be the
secretary, of the Sinking Fund Commission. The Sinking Fund Commission shall
manage and control the sinking fund in the manner provided by general law until
otherwise provided by ordinance.
   The Sinking Fund Commission shall invest all moneys received by them in
bonds of the United States, the State of Ohio, or of any municipal corporation,
school, township, or county in such State, or in notes and certificates of
indebtedness of the City of East Cleveland, and shall hold in reserve only such
sums as may be needed for effecting the purposes for which the sinking fund was
created and is maintained.
(Amended 4-29-24)
IMPROVEMENTS - CONTRACTS
§ 69  LIMITATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   In levying special assessments to pay any part of the cost of any public
work or improvement, the Council shall not exceed any limitation as to the
amount thereof which is now prescribed by the general laws of the State
applicable to municipalities. Unless for special reason which shall be stated
in the ordinance levying an assessment or providing for the issue of bonds to
pay any part of the cost of any such improvement to be made pursuant to
contract, no such ordinance shall be passed, or assessment levied, or money
borrowed, until sealed competitive bids for the labor and material have been
received and the approximate cost of the improvement determined.
§ 70  SEWER, WATER AND GAS CONNECTIONS.
   Before paving or otherwise surfacing or resurfacing any street or alley of
the city, the Council shall determine the time within which sewer, water, gas,
or other connections shall be constructed, and shall give notice thereof to the
persons or corporations required to make the same, and, if such persons or
corporations fail to make any such connection when so required, no permission
to make the same shall thereafter be granted within five years from the
completion of any such street improvement, unless with the consent of four
members of the Council, expressed by resolution adopted at a regular meeting of
the Council, and stating the reasons therefor and the conditions under which
the same shall be made. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the
Council from providing that such connections may be made by the city and the
cost thereof assessed against the lots and lands specially benefited thereby.
§ 71  STREET SPRINKLING AND CLEANING SIDEWALKS.
   The Council may provide by ordinance or resolution for the sprinkling of
streets or parts of streets with water, or treating the same with oil, or other
dust preventive, and for removing snow and ice from the sidewalks of the city,
and for assessing the cost thereof against the abutting property if not paid
for by the owners of said property within the time specified in such ordinance
or resolution. The Council may also provide by ordinance or resolution for the
removal of noxious weeds and rubbish on property within the city and for
assessing the cost of such removal against the owner of such property if not
paid for by such owner within the time specified by such ordinance and
resolution.
§ 72  CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor may make any contract or purchase supplies or material, or provide
labor for any work in any department, not involving more than Two Thousand Five
Hundred Dollars or the amount stipulated by State law, whichever amount is the
greater. When any expenditure within any department other than the compensation
of persons employed therein, exceeds Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars or the
amount stipulated by State law, whichever amount is the greater, such
expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance of the Council,
and when so authorized and directed the Mayor shall make a written contract
with the lowest and best bidder after advertisement for not less than two nor
more than four consecutive weeks in a newspaper having a bona fide daily
general circulation of 20,000 copies or more within Cuyahoga County, Ohio. All
bids shall be sealed and shall be opened at twelve o’clock noon on the last day
for filing the same by the Mayor at his office in the City of East Cleveland,
Ohio, and be publicly read by him. Each bid shall contain the full name of
every person or company interested in the same, and shall be accompanied by a
sufficient bond or certified check on some solvent bank that if the bid is
accepted a contract will be entered into and the performance of it properly
secured. If the work bid for embraces both labor and material, they shall be
separately stated with the price thereof. The Mayor shall report all the bids
to the Council at its next regular meeting and shall recommend which, if any,
bid shall be accepted. The Council, regardless of the recommendation of the
Mayor, may reject any or all bids. No such contract shall be entered into by
the Mayor until the approval thereof by the Council has been first had and
obtained.
   The contract shall be between the Corporation and the bidder, and the
Corporation shall pay the contract price in cash. Where a bonus is offered for
completion of a contract prior to a specified date, the Corporation may exact a
pro rata penalty in like sum for every day of delay beyond the specified date.
Where there is reason to believe there is collusion or combination among
bidders, the Mayor shall reject the bids of those concerned therein.
   Whenever it becomes necessary in the opinion of the Mayor in the prosecution
of any work or improvement under contract to make alterations or modifications
in such contract, such alterations or modifications shall only be made by such
Mayor after the same have been authorized by resolution or ordinance of the
Council; but such resolution shall be of no effect until the price to be paid
for the work and material, or both, under the altered or modified contract, has
been agreed upon in writing and signed by the contractor and the Mayor on
behalf of the corporation. And no contractor shall be allowed to recover
anything for work or material, caused by an alteration or modification unless
such contract is made as aforesaid; nor shall he, in any case, be allowed, or
recover for such work and material, or either, more than the agreed price.
   The Council may authorize, in specific cases, expenditures of the funds of
the city in amounts exceeding the limit hereinabove stated, without bidding,
for the acquisition of real estate, for the discharge of non-contractual claims
against the city, for personal services, for the joint use of facilities or
exercises of powers with other political subdivisions, for the product or
services of public utilities (including those municipally operated) or in the
case of urgent emergency, for the immediate protection of public property or
public safety.
(Amended 11-8-77)
§ 73  TIME OF MAKING CONTRACTS.
   The Council shall not authorize or enter into any contract which is not to
go into full operation during the term for which all members of such Council
are elected.
§ 74  BIDS IN EXCESS OF ESTIMATE.
   No contract shall be awarded upon bids which as a whole, or in aggregate, if
bids for parts of the work are taken, exceed the estimate for the improvement
contemplated.
§ 75  CONTRACTS - WHEN VOID.
   All contracts, agreements or other obligations entered into and all
ordinances passed or resolutions and orders adopted contrary to the provisions
of the preceding section shall be void.
FRANCHISES
§ 76  GRANTS LIMITED.
   No grant, or renewal thereof, to construct and operate a public utility in,
on, under or above the streets and public grounds of the city shall be made by
the Council to any person, persons, association, or corporation in violation of
any of the limitations contained in this Charter.
§ 77  PERIOD OF GRANTS.
   No such grant shall be made for a longer period than twenty-five years. No
such grant shall be renewed earlier than two years prior to its expiration
unless the Council shall by vote of at least four of its members first declare
by ordinance its intention of considering a renewal thereof. All grants of the
right to make extensions of any public utility shall be subject as far as
practicable to the terms of the original grant and shall expire therewith.
§ 78  ASSIGNMENT.
   No such grant shall be leased, assigned or otherwise alienated except with
the express consent of the Council.
§ 79  EXTENSION BY ANNEXATION.
   It shall be provided in every such grant that upon the annexation of any
territory to this city the portion of any such utility that may be located
within such annexed territory and upon the streets, alleys or public grounds
thereof, shall thereafter be subject to all the terms of the grant as though it
were an extension made thereof.
§ 80  CONSENTS.
   No consent of the owner or property abutting on any highway or public ground
shall be required for the construction, extension, maintenance or operation of
any public utility by original grant or renewal, unless such public utility is
of such a character that its construction or operation is an additional burden
upon the rights of the property owners in such highways or public grounds.
§ 81  REGULATIONS.
   The Council shall at all times control the distribution of space in, over,
under or across all streets or public grounds occupied by public utility
fixtures. All rights granted for the construction and operation of public
utilities shall be subject to the continuing right of the Council to require
such reconstruction, relocation, change or discontinuance of the appliances
used by the utility in the streets, alleys, avenues and highways of the city,
as shall in the opinion of the Council be necessary in the public interest.
§ 82  FORFEITURES.
   If any action shall be instituted or prosecuted directly or indirectly by
the grantee of any such grant, or by its stockholders or creditors, to set
aside or have declared void any of the terms of such grant, the whole of such
grant may be thereupon forfeited and annulled at the option of the Council, to
be expressed by ordinance. All such grants shall make provision for the
declaration of a forfeiture by the Council for the violation by the grantee of
any of the terms thereof.
§ 83  PAVING AND SPRINKLING.
   The Council, by resolution, may require the owner or operator of any
railway, railroad or spur track lying within the street limits to lay, maintain
and renew the pavements between the rails, and the tracks, and for a distance
of one foot outside of the tracks, and to remove snow and ice therefrom, and to
sprinkle the roadway to a width of not more than fifty feet, and upon failure
of any such owner or operator to comply with the provisions of such resolution
after sixty days’ notice to the person having charge or management of such
railway, railroad or spur track in the city, the city may do said work directly
or by contract, as in the case of other improvements, at the expense of the
owner or operator of such tracks, and all such expenses shall be reported by
the Mayor to the Council, and shall be charged against such owner or operator
and be a lien upon all the real estate and lease hold interest of such owner or
operator within the County of Cuyahoga, and such charge and cost, together with
a penalty of twenty-five dollars for each and every day of failure on the part
of such owner or operator to comply with the requirements of such resolution,
may be collected in any court of competent jurisdiction, or the lien enforced
in the manner provided by law.
§ 84  ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS.
   Every person or corporation operating a public utility within the city
limits, whether under a grant heretofore or hereafter obtained, shall keep and
maintain at some place within the County of Cuyahoga suitable and complete
books of account, showing in detail the assets, financial obligations, gross
revenue, net profits and all the operations of such utility which are usually
shown by a complete system of bookkeeping. Each person or corporation,
operating under a city franchise, within sixty days after the end of each of
its fiscal years, unless the Council shall extend the time, shall file with the
Council a report for the preceding fiscal year showing the gross revenue, the
net profits, expenses of repairs, betterments and additions, amount paid for
salaries, amount paid for interest and discount, other expenses of operation,
and such other information, if any, as the Council from time to time may
prescribe. The Council may also prescribe the form for such reports.
   It shall be the duty of each person or corporation to furnish the Council
such supplementary or special information about its affairs as the Council may
demand; and the Council, or its authorized representative, shall at any and all
reasonable times have access to all the books, records, and papers of each and
every person or corporation, with the privilege of making copies of same or any
part thereof. The duties herein prescribed may be specifically enforced by
appropriate legal proceedings; and in addition, each such person or
corporation, for failure to comply with the provisions of this section, shall
be liable to the City of East Cleveland, Ohio, in the sum of twenty-five
dollars per day of such failure, to be recovered in a civil action in the name
of the city.
§ 85  GRANTS NOT INCLUDED.
   Revocable permits for laying spur tracks across or along streets, alleys or
public grounds, to connect a steam or electric railroad with any property in
need of switching facilities shall not be regarded as a grant within the
meaning of this Charter, but may be permitted in accordance with such terms and
conditions as the Council may by ordinance prescribe.
§ 85-A  CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Council of the City of East Cleveland shall establish and appoint a City
Planning Commission consisting of five (5) members consisting of the Mayor, who
shall act as Chairman, two (2) members of the Mayor’s staff to be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council, and two (2) citizen members who
shall be appointed by the Council who shall serve until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The two citizen members shall be qualified electors of
the city and shall not be employees of the city. The term of the citizen
appointed members shall be for two (2) years except as to the first
appointments provided for hereunder in which one of the citizen appointees
shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year only. Vacancies of the City
Planning Commission by citizen appointees shall be filled by the Council by
appointment for the unexpired terms. The Mayor shall have the power to remove
and replace start appointees with the approval of the Council. The City
Engineer shall act as Secretary. The City Planning Commission shall be the
platting commission, and all the powers and duties provided by law for platting
commissioner or commissioners shall upon the appointment of said City Planning
Commission under this Charter, be deemed transferred to such Commission. The
City Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties to make plans and
maps of any portion of the city.
   Such plans and maps shall show the Commission’s recommendations for the
general location, character and extent of streets, alleys, ways, viaducts,
bridges, subways, boulevards, parkways, parks, playgrounds and other public
grounds, ways and open spaces; the general location of public buildings and
other public property; the general location and extent of public utilities and
terminal, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water, light,
sanitation, transportation, communication, power and other purposes; and the
removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use
of or extension of such public ways, grounds, open spaces, buildings, property,
utilities, or terminals. The City Planning Commission shall systematically plan
the relocation and development of the City of East Cleveland and shall make
recommendations to the Council of the City of East Cleveland concerning the
location, character and extent of a comprehensive plan for the progress and the
proper development of the City of East Cleveland.
   The Commission shall have the power to recommend the preservation of
historical land marks and works of art, the removal, relocation and alterations
of such works belonging to the Municipality and the design of any bridges,
viaducts, street fixtures or public structures or appurtenances.
   The power and duties of the City Planning Commission shall be to make
recommendations to the Council, and the Council of the City of East Cleveland
shall have full power and authority to accept, modify, change and otherwise
adopt or refuse to adopt the recommendations of the City Planning Commission,
and nothing herein contained shall be construed as authorizing or intending to
transfer the complete control of the parks, streets, bridges, viaducts and
other public property from the exclusive control of the Council of the City of
East Cleveland.
(Amended 11-7-72)
§ 85-B  DISTRICTING OR ZONING.
   The Council of the City of East Cleveland shall by ordinance provide for the
districting or zoning of the City of East Cleveland to promote the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare,
including the promotion of home ownership, the protection of residence
sections, the prevention of congestion, the increasing of trade and industrial
efficiency, the conservation of property values, the assurance of adequate
light and air, and the limitation, control and regulation of buildings in the
city in accordance with a well established plan of use, height, size and area
for all property and its development in the City of East Cleveland.
   Districting and zoning shall include provisions to regulate, restrict and
specify the locations of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings and
other use of property, the number of square feet of lot area per family, the
size of buildings or parts thereof, the location and size of side, front and
rear yards, and the height of buildings; shall provide for the division of the
city into use districts, height districts and area districts; shall provide for
the alignment or setback of buildings and other structures; and shall provide
maps showing said districts and structure alignment or setback.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the Council in the exercise of
all the powers to zone or re-district now or hereafter authorized by the
Constitution or statutes of the State of Ohio.
   The plan or plans providing for the control, limitations and regulations of
building lines or setback building lines may be incorporated in a separate
ordinance as part of the zoning plan and subject to all of the Board of Zoning
Appeals provisions of this Charter.
   The districting or zoning ordinance shall provide for a Board of Zoning
Appeals which shall consist of the Mayor, who shall act as Chairman, the
Director of Health, the Chief of the Police Department, the Chief of the Fire
Department, all of whom shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified, and a member of the Mayor’s staff, other than the City Engineer, to
be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council. The City Engineer
shall act as Secretary. All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
public. Public notice shall be given of hearings on any appeals from the
decisions of department heads by the posting of a notice on the bulletin board
in the main entrance of the City Hall for a period of at least three (3) days,
together with such additional notice, if any, that the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall deem necessary. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine all matters properly presented
to it and where practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships shall result
from the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the provisions of the
districting or zoning ordinance, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the
power to grant variances in harmony with the general intent of the ordinance
and to secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the promotion of
the public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of
the City of East Cleveland. The Council of the City of East Cleveland shall
have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of the Board
of Zoning Appeals if the Council finds that the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals is contrary to the purpose and intent of the provisions of the
districting or zoning ordinance.
   The Council of the City of East Cleveland may from time to time amend,
repeal or adopt any or all of the provisions of the districting or zoning
ordinance, but no amendment, repeal or adoption shall be passed until the
Council shall have held a public hearing thereon and shall have given at least
five (5) days’ notice of the time and place thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality, and during said five (5) days the text or a
copy of the text of such amendment, repeal or adoption, together with the maps
or plans or copies thereof forming part of or referred to in said ordinance,
measure or regulation, shall be on file with the Clerk of the Council for
public examination and a copy of the text of such amendment, repeal or adoption
shall be placed on the bulletin board in the main entrance of the City Hall.
(Amended 11-7-72)
§ 86  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this Charter contained shall operate in any way, except as herein
specifically stated, to limit the Council in the exercise of any of its lawful
powers respecting public utilities, or to prohibit the Council from imposing in
any such grant such further restrictions and provisions as it may deem to be in
the public interest, provided only that the same are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Charter or the Constitution of the State.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 87  GENERAL LAWS TO APPLY.
   All general laws of the State applicable to municipal corporations now or
hereafter enacted, and which are not in conflict or inconsistent with the
provisions of this Charter, or with ordinances or resolutions hereafter enacted
by the Council, shall be applicable to this city and all officers and
departments thereof; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Charter
shall be construed as limiting the power of the Council to enact any ordinance
or resolution not in conflict with the Constitution of the State or with the
express provisions of this Charter.
(Amended 5-6-52)
§ 88  ORDINANCES CONTINUED IN FORCE.
   All ordinances and resolutions in force at time of the taking effect of this
Charter, not inconsistent with its provisions, shall continue in full force and
effect until amended or repealed.
§ 89  CONTINUANCE OF PRESENT OFFICERS.
   All persons holding office at the time this Charter goes into effect shall
continue in office, and in the performance of their duties until provision
shall have been otherwise made in accordance with this Charter for the
performance or discontinuance of the duties of any such office. When such
provision shall have been made, the term of any such officer shall expire and
the office be deemed abolished. The powers which are conferred and the duties
which are imposed upon any officer, commission, board or department of the city
under the laws of the State, or under any city ordinance or contract in force
at the time of the taking effect of this act shall, if such office, commission,
board or department is abolished by this Charter, be thereafter exercised and
discharged by the officer, commission, board or department upon whom are
imposed corresponding functions, powers and duties by this Charter or by any
ordinance or resolution of the Council thereafter enacted.
§ 90  CONTINUANCE OF CONTRACTS AND VESTED RIGHTS.
   All vested rights of the city shall continue to be vested in the city and
shall not in any manner be affected by the adoption of this Charter; nor shall
any right or liability, or pending suit or prosecution, either in behalf of or
against the city, be in any manner affected by the adoption of this Charter,
unless otherwise herein expressly provided to the contrary. All contracts
entered into by the city or for its benefit prior to the taking effect of this
Charter shall continue in full force and effect. All public work begun prior to
the taking effect of this Charter shall be continued and perfected thereunder.
Public improvements for which legislative steps shall have been taken, under
laws in force at the time this Charter takes effect may be carried to
completion in accordance with the provisions of such laws.
§ 91 INVESTIGATION.
   The Council, or any committee thereof, Mayor and any advisory board
appointed by the Council for such purpose, shall have power at any time to
cause the affairs of any department or the conduct of any officer or employee
to be investigated; and for such purpose shall have power to compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers and other evidence;
and for that purpose may issue subpoenas or attachments which shall be signed
by the president or chairman of the body or by the officer making the
investigation, and shall be served by any officer authorized by law to serve
such process. The authority making such investigation shall also have power to
cause the testimony to be given under oath administered by some officer
authorized by general law to administer oaths; and shall also have power to
punish as for contempt any person refusing to testify to any fact within his
knowledge, or to produce any books, or papers under his control, relating to
the matter under investigation.
§ 92  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, take and subscribe an oath or affirmation, to be filed and kept in the
office of the Clerk of the Council, that he will in all respects faithfully
discharge the duties of his office.
§ 93  HOURS OF LABOR.
   Except in case of extraordinary emergencies, not to exceed eight hours shall
constitute a day’s work, and not to exceed forty-eight hours a week’s work, for
workmen engaged on any public work carried on or aided by the Municipality,
whether done by contract or otherwise. The Council shall, by ordinance, provide
for the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
§ 94  AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this Charter may be submitted to the electors of the city by a
four-fifths vote of the Council, and shall be submitted by the Council when a
petition signed by ten (10) percent of the total number of voters voting at the
last regular election of municipal officers of the city, setting forth any such
proposed amendment, shall have been filed in the manner and form prescribed
herein for the submission of ordinances by an initiative petition. The
amendment shall be submitted to the electors at the next regular municipal
election if one shall occur not less than sixty (60) nor more than one hundred
and twenty (120) days after its passage; otherwise, it shall provide for the
submission of the amendment at a special election to be called and held within
the time aforesaid. Not less than thirty (30) days prior to such election, the
Clerk of the Council shall mail a copy of the proposed amendment to each
elector whose name appears upon the registration or poll books of the last
regular municipal or general election, or the full text of the proposed Charter
amendment shall be published once a week for not less than two (2) consecutive
weeks in a newspaper published in the city, or in a newspaper of general
circulation if no newspaper is published therein, with the first publication
being at least fifteen (15) days prior to the election at which the amendment
is to be submitted to the electors, whichever method the Council shall elect.
If such proposed amendment be approved by a majority of the electors voting
thereon, it shall become a part of the Charter at the time fixed therein.
(Amended 11-7-72)
§ 94-A  CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION.
(Repealed 5-7-85)
§ 95  SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any section or part of a section of this Charter is determined by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, it shall not invalidate or impair the
force or effect of any other section or part of a section of this Charter,
except in so far as such other section or part of a section is dependent for
its operation upon the section or part of a section so held invalid.
§ 96  WHEN CHARTER TAKES EFFECT.
   For the purpose of nominating and electing officers, holding and conducting
all municipal elections, and determining and establishing the right to vote at
said elections, this Charter shall take effect from the time of its approval by
the electors of the city; and for all other purposes, it shall take effect on
the 1st day of January, 1918.
ABOLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION AND OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER
§ 97  ABOLISHMENT OF CITY COMMISSION AND OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER.
   The office of City Manager and each and every office of member of the
Commission, including the offices of President and Vice-President of the
Commission, and the Commission itself established heretofore by Sections
3 and
8 of the Charter of the City of East Cleveland, are hereby abolished,
dissolved, and divested of all power to act on behalf of or in the name of the
City of East Cleveland or otherwise as heretofore invested therein by the
aforesaid charter, by law, or otherwise. Presently elected members of the
Commission shall be entitled to the salary established for their office for the
balance of the elected term in which they are presently serving, except to the
extent that any of such members are appointed or elected to other office or
employment with the city and receive compensation therefor from the city, which
compensation shall be a complete set-off against any compensation due under
this section or otherwise for salary or compensation as a member of the
Commission.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
THE COUNCIL
§ 98  THE COUNCIL; POWERS; ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   A.   Council - Powers: The legislative power of the city, except as limited
by this Charter, shall be vested in a Council consisting of five members.
Commencing with the regular municipal election to be held in the year 2001,
three members of Council shall, in each case, be resident of and elected from
each of the three wards of the city, which currently are established and
existing pursuant to the general election laws of the State of Ohio and may
from time to time be changed pursuant to such laws, and two of whom shall be
elected at large. When not prescribed in this Charter, or determined by
Council, such powers shall be exercised in such manner as may or hereafter be
provided by the general laws of the State of Ohio.
   B.   Council - Election and Term of Office: The terms of all members elected
to Council shall be for four years, starting January 1, 2002, following their
election, and they shall serve until their successors are chosen and qualified;
provided, however, that Council members elected in the year 2001 to an at large
membership by receiving the second highest number of votes and to a ward
membership by receiving the third highest number of votes in their respective
categories (in cases of a tie in the respective categories, there shall be a
special election in the year 2002 for the sole purpose of determining which
members of the respective categories shall serve four-year terms) shall be
elected for a two-year term expiring in the year 2003 and the two Council
members elected in 2003 and their successors shall thereafter serve for four-
year terms. The candidates for election to the vacancies in the office of
Council member receiving the highest number of votes at such regular elections
shall be declared elected.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 99  QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Council, for at least one year immediately prior to his
or her election shall have been, and during the term of office shall continue
to be, a resident of the City of East Cleveland, Ohio, and shall have the
qualifications of an elector therein. No person shall be a member of Council
who holds any employment with the City of East Cleveland, the East Cleveland
Board of Education, or other incompatible public employment or holds other
public office except that of notary public or member of the State Militia.
   Any member becoming guilty of gross misconduct or malfeasance in office,
being convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude while in office, or
ceasing to possess the qualifications herein provided, shall thereby forfeit
his office.
   The Council shall be judge of the election and qualifications of its own
members. It may expel any member for gross misconduct, or malfeasance in, or
disqualification for office or for conviction of a crime involving moral
turpitude while in office; provided, however, that such expulsion shall not
take place without the concurrence of four members nor until the delinquent
member shall have been notified of the charge against him and given an
opportunity to be heard.
(Amended 5-3-88)
§ 100  VACANCY.
   When the office of a member of Council shall become vacant, the vacancy
shall be filled by election for the unexpired term by a majority vote of all
the remaining members of the Council. If the Council fails within 30 days to
fill such a vacancy, the President of Council shall fill it by appointment.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 101  SALARY.
   Each member of the Council, except the President, shall receive a salary of
Four Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($4,500.00) per year and the President of
the Council shall receive a salary of Six Thousand Dollars ($6,000.00) per
year, payable in equal monthly installments.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 102  ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   At 7:30 p.m. on the 2nd day of January, following a regular municipal
election, or if such date be a Sunday, on the day following, the incoming
Council members as well as Council members continuing in office shall meet at a
mutually agreed upon place by the Mayor and the Council as the legislative body
of the City of East Cleveland. The Mayor, or Mayor’s designee, shall call this
meeting and shall preside as temporary chairperson only until all Council
members have been sworn in and the President of Council has been elected. The
first official business meeting of the incoming Council shall be within five
(5) business days after the commencement of their term. The President of
Council, in addition to the Council’s obligations, rights, and duties as a
Councilperson at large, shall preside at all meetings and shall perform such
duties as may be imposed upon him or her by the Council. In the absence of both
the President and Vice President of the Council, the senior-most member of
Council shall be chairperson of the meeting, provided a quorum is present. The
Council shall also choose or appoint a Clerk and such other officers and
employees of the sitting Council as it deems necessary, to serve at the
pleasure and during the term of the sitting Council. The Clerk shall keep the
records of the Council and perform such other duties as may be required by this
Charter or the Council but within the scope of the Council’s daily business.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 103  TIME OF MEETINGS; PUBLIC MEETINGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   The Council shall meet at such times as may be prescribed by ordinance
or resolution, except that it shall meet regularly only during the months from
September through June, inclusive, not less than once each two weeks. The
President, any two members of the Council, or the Mayor, may call special
meetings of the Council, upon at least twelve hours’ written notice to each
member, served personally or left at his or her usual place of residence.
   (b)   All meetings of the public bodies of the city and of the Council,
whether regular or special, shall be open and public, except for the purposes
and as permitted by the law of Ohio.
   (c)   Any citizen may have access to the minutes and records of the Council
at all reasonable times.
   (d)   The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall keep a journal of its proceedings.
   (e)   This section shall be liberally construed to require public officials
to take official action and to Conduct all deliberations upon official business
only in open meetings, except for the purposes and as provided by the law of
Ohio as provided within this Charter.
(Amended 11-6-90)
§ 104  PENALTY FOR ABSENCE.
   Absence from five consecutive regular meetings shall operate to vacate the
seat of a member unless the absence is excused by the Council by resolution
setting forth such excuse and entered upon the journal.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 105  LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE.
   A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum, but a less number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance
of absent members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed
by ordinance. The Council shall legislatively act only by ordinance or
resolution. The affirmative vote of at least three members shall be necessary
to adopt any ordinance or resolution; and the vote upon the passage of all
ordinances and resolutions shall be taken by “yeas” and “nays” and entered upon
the journal.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 106  ORDINANCE ENACTMENT.
   Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in written or
printed form and shall not contain more than one subject, which shall be
clearly stated in the title. General appropriation ordinances may, however,
contain the various subjects and accounts for which moneys are to be
appropriated. The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the Council shall
be: “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of East Cleveland, Ohio”. The
enacting clause of all ordinances submitted to popular election by the
initiative shall be: “Be it ordained by the people of the City of East
Cleveland, Ohio.”
   No ordinance, unless it be an emergency measure, shall be passed until it
has been read at two regular meetings not less than two weeks apart, or the
requirement of such reading has been dispensed with by the vote of at least
four members of the Council. No ordinance or resolution or section thereof
shall be revised or amended, unless the new ordinance or resolution contain the
entire ordinance or resolution or section so revised or amended.
   No resolution declaring it necessary to proceed with any public improvement
shall be adopted until complete drawings, specifications, profiles and
estimates have been submitted to the Council and approved by it; and the same,
or a copy thereof, shall thereafter remain on file in the office of the Mayor,
subject to inspection by the public.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 107  EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   All ordinances and resolutions passed by the Council shall be in effect on
and after the thirtieth day from the date of their passage except that the
Council may, by the vote of four members, pass emergency measures to take
effect at the time indicated therein, subject to the veto power of the Mayor.
   An emergency measure is an ordinance or resolution providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health or safety, in
which the emergency is set forth and defined in a preamble thereto. Ordinances
appropriating money may be passed as emergency measures. No measure making a
grant, renewal or extension of a lease for one or more years or franchise or
other special privilege, or regulating the rate to be charged for its service
by any public utility, shall ever be passed as an emergency measure.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 108  RECORD AND PUBLICATION.
   Every ordinance or resolution upon its final passage shall be recorded in a
journal kept for that purpose, and shall be authenticated by the signatures of
the President and the Clerk of Council.
   Every ordinance or resolution of a general or permanent nature shall be
published once within ten (10) business days after its final passage in the
manner hereafter provided. City planning or any other municipal codes or
regulations or the general codification of city ordinances or amendments of
such codes, regulations or codifications shall be published within ten (10)
business days after the passage by a notice containing in general terms only
the purpose, the date of the passage, and the effective date of such ordinance
and resolutions.
   Further, copies of such ordinances and resolutions shall be on file with the
Clerk of Council for public examination and placed on the bulletin board in the
main entrance of City Hall for at least fourteen (14) days.
   The Council shall, however, before issuing bonds to pay for any public
improvement, publish a notice headed, “Notice of Bond Issue for Public
Improvement”, describing said improvement in general terms and setting forth
the time within which assessments of property specially benefited may be paid
in cash, and the period of maturity and the rate of interest of said bonds for
that portion of the assessment not so paid in cash.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 109  PRICE AND MODE OF PUBLICATION.
   All the above mentioned publications, as well as all other newspaper
publications made by the city, except as hereinafter provided, shall be
published where legally permissible but once and in one newspaper of general
circulation in the city, printed in the English language, to be designated by
the Council. Before designating the newspaper to carry such publications, the
Council shall request all such newspapers to submit sealed bids for such
publishing, together with their published rate card for commercial advertising,
and a sworn statement of their bona fide net paid circulation within the City
of East Cleveland, and in making such designation the Council shall take into
consideration both the rate and circulation of the newspaper, and the city
shall thereupon enter into a contract with the newspaper so designated for such
period of time, not exceeding three years, as the Commission shall determine.
   All such publications shall be set solid in the regular reading type of the
newspaper so designated, but not larger than eight-point type and nine-point
body, with an eighteen point headline specifying the nature of the publication;
provided that by order of the Council special notices or advertising may be set
in larger type than above specified, and notice of the sale of bonds may be
published in not to exceed two newspapers. The newspaper carrying any or all of
such publications shall be paid for the quantity of space used at a rate no
higher than it charges for the same space for commercial display advertising.
Whenever it may appear to the Council that the rates offered by such newspapers
are unfair, such other means of securing due publicity may be employed, in lieu
of newspaper advertising, as the Council may by resolution determine.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 110  SALARIES AND BONDS.
   The Council shall fix by ordinance, the salary, rate, or amount of
compensation of all officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise
provided in this Charter. The Council may establish minimum employment
qualifications not otherwise in conflict with general State Law for any officer
or employee, except for the Mayor and the members of Council and as is
otherwise provided in the Charter or required by law and may require any
officer or employee to give a bond for the faithful performance of his duty in
such an amount as it may determine and it may provide that the premium thereof
shall be paid by the city. The Council shall establish and require that the
Finance Director give a bond for the faithful performance or his or her duties,
in such amount as determined appropriate by Council and shall provide that the
premium thereof shall be paid by the city.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 111  GENERAL DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   No member of the Council, the Mayor, or any other officer or employee of the
city, shall be directly or indirectly interested in any contract, job, work or
service with or for the city; nor in the profits or emoluments thereof; nor in
the expenditure of any money on the part of the city; and any contract with the
city in which any officer or employee is, or becomes interested, may be
declared void by the Council.
   No member of the Council, the Mayor, or other officer or employee of the
city shall knowingly accept any gift, frank, free ticket pass, reduced price or
reduced rate of service from any person, firm, or corporation operating a
public utility or engaged in business of a public nature within the city; or
from any person known to him to have or to be endeavoring to secure, a contract
with the city. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
transportation of policemen or firemen in uniform or wearing their official
badges, when the same is provided for by ordinance.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
THE MAYOR
§ 112  MAYOR; QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   A.   Qualifications: The Mayor shall have been, for at least two (2)
consecutive years immediately prior to his or her election or appointment, a
resident and qualified elector of the City of East Cleveland. During his or her
term, the Mayor shall remain a resident and qualified elector of the city and
shall carry out his duties on a full-time basis.
   B.   Term of Office: The term of the Mayor shall be for four (4) years
beginning January 1 next following his or her election, and he or she shall
hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 113  POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   A.   General Powers and Duties: The Mayor shall be the chief executive
officer of the city, responsible for carrying out and fulfilling the intent and
purpose of any and all legislation duly passed by the Council. The Mayor shall
supervise the administration of all the affairs of the city and the conduct and
administration of all departments and divisions thereof, except the Council and
as otherwise provided by this Charter, and the Mayor shall have all such powers
as are conferred upon Mayors by the laws of the State of Ohio.
   The Mayor shall be the chief conservator of the peace within the city and
shall see that all laws, resolutions, and ordinances are enforced therein.
   The Mayor shall at all times keep the Council fully advised of the financial
conditions and needs of the city and shall recommend to the Council such
measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the safety and
welfare of the city and shall submit to the Council the estimate provided for
in
Section 60 of the Charter. During the month of February of each year, the Mayor
shall prepare and present to Council a state of the city report summarizing the
accomplishments of the preceding year together with proposed programs for
succeeding years.
   The Mayor shall be the official and ceremonial head of the city.
   The Mayor shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this
Charter or required of him or her by Council.
   B.   Mayor’s Appointing Powers: The Mayor shall appoint all officers and
employees of the city, except members, officers, and employees of the Council
and judges and their assistants. All persons appointed by the Mayor, except
those whose terms are fixed by this Charter or by law, may be promoted,
demoted, transferred, or removed by the Mayor subject, however, to the Civil
Service provisions of this Charter, when applicable. The foregoing appointive
powers of the Mayor may be delegated by him or her to the directors of any
department or to the heads of divisions. Such power of removal shall be
exercised over a member of a board or commission after complaint and hearing,
only for neglect of duty, incapacity, incompetency, or malfeasance in office.
   C.   Mayor’s Contracting Powers: The Mayor shall be the contracting officer
of the city and shall award and execute all contracts on behalf of the city,
except that is otherwise provided in the Charter and except that Council may
also authorize contracts. When awarding contracts, the Mayor shall follow the
procedures established pursuant to
Section 72 of this Charter, with respect to competitive bidding and other
matters.
   D.   Mayor’s Right in Council: The Mayor shall be entitled to a seat in, but
not on, the Council, and, along with the Finance Director, Law Director, and
such other department heads as directed by the Mayor, shall attend or be
represented at all meetings of Council. The Mayor have the right to recommend
ordinances, resolutions, and motions and the right to participate in the
discussion of all matters coming before Council, but shall not vote in Council.
At the request of the Mayor, the heads of the respective departments shall be
given an opportunity to participate in the deliberations of Council on the
legislation pertaining to their department, but shall have no vote.
   E.   Mayor’s Veto Powers: Every ordinance and resolution passed by the
Council shall be signed by its President or Vice President and shall be
presented forthwith to the Mayor by the Clerk. If the Mayor approves such
ordinance or resolution, he or she shall sign and return it. But if the Mayor
does not approve it, he or she shall return it with a statement of his or her
objections to the Council who shall enter the Mayor’s objections in its
journal. The Council may then reconsider the vote on the passage of such
legislation not later than at its next regular meeting. If upon
reconsideration, it is approved by four-fifths (4/5) of the members of Council,
it shall become effective. If any ordinance or resolution shall not be returned
by the Mayor within seven days after it was presented to him or her, it shall
become effective in the same manner as if the Mayor had signed it on the last
day of the seven-day period. The Mayor may approve or disapprove the whole of
any item or part of any ordinance or resolution appropriating money, and the
whole item or part so disapproved shall be void unless repassed by the Council
in the manner herein prescribed.
(Amended 11-7-00)
§ 114  VACANCY.
   During the time when the Mayor is absent from the city, or is otherwise not
accessible, or is temporarily unable for any cause to perform his or her
duties, the order of succession as Acting Mayor shall be as follows: Director
of Finance, Director of Law, and the Director of Public Service. In the case of
death, resignation, removal or long-term absence of the Mayor, the order of
succession as Mayor shall be as follows: President of Council, Vice President
of Council and ranking Council member based upon aggregate years of service or,
in the event of equal years of service, aggregate votes received during all
successful elections, except in the event that a vacancy occurs in the office
of Mayor and there exists a Mayor-elect who has not yet assumed such office,
then, in that event, the person so elected to the office of Mayor shall become
Mayor for the unexpired term and for the full term for which such person was
elected. The successor shall serve as Mayor until the successor for the
remainder of the unexpired term is elected at the first regular municipal
election, if such election is held more than 120 days after the vacancy shall
have occurred. Otherwise, he or she shall serve for the unexpired term.
(Amended 11-7-00)
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 115  NOMINATION AND ELECTION PROCEDURES.
   Candidates for the office of Mayor or member of Council shall be nominated
only by petition. No primary election shall be held for the election of Council
members, but a partisan primary election shall be held for the election of the
Mayor. No nomination except as prescribed by this section shall be effective.
The name of any elector of the city shall be printed as a candidate on the
regular municipal election ballot, in the case of candidates for Council, or on
the primary election ballot, in the case of candidates for Mayor, if there is
filed with the election authorities as prescribed by general law a petition in
accordance with the following provisions:
   (a)   Such petition shall state the name and place of residence of each
person whose name is presented for a place upon the ballot, and that he or she
is a qualified candidate for the office sought.
   (b)   Such petition shall be signed by electors of the city equal in number
to not less than two percent (2%) of the total number of voters voting at the
last regular municipal election.
   (c)   Such petition shall contain a provision that each signer thereof
thereby pledges to support and vote for the candidate whose name is presented
on said ballot, and that each signer shall subscribe to a number of petitions
for each office no greater than the total number of positions for that office
to be filled by said election. Each such elector signing a petition shall add
to the elector’s signature the elector’s place of residence with street and
number and the date of signing. All signatures shall be made with ink or
indelible pencil.
   (d)   The signatures of all petitioners need not be appended to one paper,
but to each separate paper there shall be attached an affidavit of the
circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereto, that each person
signed in the circulator’ s presence on the date stated therein, and that the
circulator believes in good faith that the signature is that of the person
whose name it appears to be. Signatures shall be collected on said petitions
not earlier than one hundred and ten (110) days prior to the date of the
holding of said regular municipal election, in the case of candidates for
Council, or said primary election in the case of candidates for Mayor.
   (e)   All nominating papers comprising a petition shall be assembled and
filed with the election authorities as one instrument not less than ninety (90)
days prior to the date of holding of said regular municipal election, in the
case of candidates for Council, or the date of said primary election, in the
case of candidates for Mayor.
   (f)   Each petition shall name a committee of three authorized electors to
represent the signers of such petition. If the elector nominated by such
petition shall, for any reason, cease to be a candidate, a majority of such
committee shall select an elector to fill such vacancy and shall thereupon make
and file with the election authorities prescribed by law a certificate, setting
forth the name of the new nominee, the office for which nominated, the name of
the person for whom the new nominee is to be substituted and such other
information as is required to be given in an original petition for nomination.
The certificate so made shall be executed, acknowledged and sworn to by the
majority of the committee in the manner prescribed for the original petition
for nomination, and shall be filed with the election authorities prescribed by
general law at least seventy-six (76) days before the date of election and
shall have the same force and effect as an original petition for nominations:
and the new nominee shall file his or her acceptance of such candidacy with the
election authorities along with said certificate, otherwise his or her name
shall not appear on the ballot.
   (g)   In the case of candidates for Council, a non-partisan election of
Council shall be held on the date of each regular municipal election. The five
candidates each receiving the most votes cast shall be deemed the winners of
the election, and shall be entitled to assume their offices pursuant to
Sections
36 and
98.
   (h)   The primary election for the office of Mayor shall be held on the
second (2nd) Tuesday of September. The two candidates each receiving the most
votes cast in the primary election shall proceed to a runoff election to be
held on the date of the first regular municipal election following the primary
election. The person receiving the most votes cast in said regular municipal
election shall be declared the winner of said election, and shall be entitled
to assume the Mayor’s office pursuant to §
112.
   (i)   All primary or regular municipal election ballots shall be in
conformity with the provisions contained in Section
33.
(Amended 6-6-89, 11-6-90; 11-5-96; 11-5-02; Ord. 53-12, 7-31-2012; Ord. 05-16,
passed 7-19-2016)
§ 116  FIRST ELECTION; RECALL.
   If there are at least 120 days and not more than 130 days prior to the
November general election upon the effective date of this provision, the
election of the first members of Council and the Mayor shall be held on such
date. Otherwise, the Acting Mayor is hereby empowered to set a date for such
election which is not more than 130 nor less than 120 days from the effective
date of this provision. The Mayor and Council members shall be subject to
removal by recall by the procedures established in Section
40 through
59, inclusive of this Charter.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
AUDITING PROCEDURE
§ 117  AUDITING PROCEDURES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to secure audits from the
Auditor of the State of Ohio or certified public accountant or examiners
approved by the Auditor of the State of Ohio as follows:
   (a)   An audit at the end of each fiscal year of all the books of the city
including an audit of all the accounts of all officers and departments;
   (b)   An audit upon the death, resignation, removal, or expiration of the
term of any officer; and
   (c)   Any audit as otherwise requested by ordinance of the Council.
   The form of accounts and reports to be rendered by each officer and
department and the form and method of keeping accounts by all officers and
departments shall be as prescribed by the Finance Director subject to the
powers and duties of the Bureau of Inspection and supervision of public offices
of the State of Ohio. The form of audit shall be as prescribed by the rules and
regulations of the Auditor of the State of Ohio and may include such additional
information as requested by ordinance adopted by Council and agreed to by the
Auditor of the State of Ohio.
   If the person authorized to conduct the audit under the circumstances
hereinabove stated, finds any indebtedness by any officer or employee or other
person to the municipal corporation, such auditor shall immediately give notice
thereof to the Council and Director of Law of the city and the Director of Law
shall thereupon proceed forthwith to collect the indebtedness.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 118  CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION.
   Within one month after January 1, 1986, and within one month after taking
office from the regular general election to be held each eighth year
thereafter, the Mayor shall appoint a commission of nine (9) qualified electors
of the City of East Cleveland to be known as the Charter Review Commission.
Such Charter Review Commission shall review and recommend to the Council of the
city any alterations, revisions and amendments to this Charter as in its
judgment seems desirable. The Council shall submit to the electors any such
proposed alterations, revisions, or amendments to the Charter, in the manner
provided in Section
94 of the Charter.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 119  ACTING MAYOR AND COUNCIL; ORDINANCES CONTINUED IN FORCE.
   Upon the effective date of this Amendment and pending election and
qualification, to maintain the city pending the first election, the present Law
Director shall be the Acting Mayor of the City of East Cleveland, the present
elected members of the City Commission shall each be acting members of Council,
and the appointment and employment of the present City Manager and Finance
Director and all other officers or employees of the city shall remain in full
force and effect subject to the terms and conditions of the Charter,
ordinances, resolutions and law from and after the effective date of this
Charter Amendment. All resolutions and ordinances of the city in force at the
effective date of this Charter Amendment shall remain in full force and
effective until amended or repealed. The Acting Mayor shall have the power to
delegate or assign any powers, offices or duties of the office of Mayor to the
City Manager pending election of the first Mayor at which time the office of
City Manager shall be abolished.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 120  REPEALED SECTIONS.
   Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21,
34, and 94A of the Charter of the City of East Cleveland are hereby repealed.
All other Sections of the East Cleveland Charter in effect prior to the
effective date of this Amendment are hereby repealed as of the effective date
of this Charter Amendment only to the extent that they are in conflict with the
provisions of other sections of the Charter adopted herewith or are otherwise
rendered inapplicable thereby.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 121  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any section or part of a section adopted on the effective date of this
provision is determined by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, it
shall not invalidate or impair the force or effect of any other section or part
of a section of this Charter, except and insofar as such other section or part
of a section is dependent for its operation upon a section or part of a section
so held invalid.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 122  EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS.
   For all purposes, Sections
97 through
122, inclusive, shall take effect and be in force from and after the time of
its approval by the electors of the city, as of the date of the certification
of the abstract of said election and adoption to the Secretary of State by the
Board of Elections as provided by law.
(Adopted 5-7-85)
§ 123  EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS.
   For all purposes, Sections
112 and
115 shall take effect and be in force from and after the time of their approval
by the electors of the city, as of the date of the certification of the
abstract of said election and adoption to the Secretary of State by the Board
of Elections as provided by law.
(Added 6-6-89)
APPENDIX A: REPEALED CHARTER SECTIONS
Editor’s note: The Charter amendments enacted on May 7, 1985, repealed a number
of sections in the Charter to which reference must still be made. Set forth
below are five such sections which are referred to in Sections
97 and
113.
§ 3  POWERS.
   All powers of the city, except such as are vested in the Board of Education,
and in the Municipal Court, and except as otherwise provided by this Charter or
by the Constitution of the State, are hereby vested in a Commission to consist
of five members elected at large; and, except as otherwise prescribed by this
Charter or by the Constitution of the State, the Commission shall by ordinance
prescribe the manner in which any power of the city shall be exercised.
§ 8  PRESIDENT.
   The Commission shall at the time of organizing and every two years
thereafter elect one of its members as President and another as Vice-President.
   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and shall have
a voice and vote in its proceedings, but no veto. Except as the same are
otherwise disposed of or provided for herein, he shall exercise all the powers
and discharge all the duties imposed upon Mayors of municipalities by the
general laws of the State which are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Charter. He may use the title of Mayor where necessities occasioned by
general law so require; but nothing herein provided shall be construed as
conferring upon him the administrative functions herein conferred upon other
officers or the judicial functions of a mayor under the general laws of the
State.
   The President of the Commission shall be recognized as the official head of
the city by the courts; by the Governor for the purpose of military law; and
for all ceremonial purposes. During times of great public danger or emergency,
he may, unless and until otherwise provided by the Commission, take command of
the police, fire and health forces and govern the city by proclamation, and he
shall himself be the judge of what constitutes such public danger and
emergency. The powers and duties of the President shall be such as are
conferred upon him by the Charter, together with such others as are conferred
by the Commission in pursuance of the provisions of this Charter.
   If the President be temporarily absent from the city, or becomes temporarily
disabled from any cause, his duties shall be performed during such absence or
disability by the Vice-President. During the temporary absence or disability of
both President and Vice-President the other members of the Commission shall
select one of their number to perform the duties of President. In case of a
vacancy in either of said offices the Commission shall elect from its
membership a successor for the unexpired term.
§ 9  APPOINTEES.
   The Commission shall appoint the City Manager and the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance, until otherwise provided by ordinance of the
Commission, shall be ex-officio Clerk of the Commission, and shall keep its
records and perform all other duties required by this Charter and by the
Commission. The Commission may also appoint and employ such other officers and
employees of its body as it deems necessary. All appointees of the Commission
shall hold office at the pleasure of the Commission.
   The Commission shall create and establish all other offices and positions
which it may deem necessary in connection with the administration of the city’s
affairs, and which are not otherwise herein provided for.
§ 19  APPOINTMENT.
   There shall be a City Manager who shall be the chief administrative officer
of the city. He shall be chosen initially for a two-year term by the Commission
by vote of majority of all members thereof and may be so chosen and appointed
to subsequent two-year terms. He need not be a resident of the city at the time
of his appointment but shall reside therein during his tenure of office. He
shall be removable from office at any time by vote of a majority of the members
of the Commission; provided, however, that after he has held office for two
years of his first term, during any subsequent consecutive term which shall be
for a two-year period, he may be removed only after written charges and a
public hearing on the same before the Commission, but during such hearing the
Commission may suspend him from office.
(Amended 11-8-77)
§ 20  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be responsible to the Commission for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city and the enforcement of the laws and
ordinances, except as herein otherwise provided, and to that end he shall have
authority to appoint and remove all other administrative officers and
employees, except the Director of Finance. He shall attend all meetings of the
Commission and its committees with the right to participate in their
discussions, but he shall have no vote. He shall prepare and submit to the
Commission the annual budget after receiving estimates made by the directors of
the departments, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
this Charter and the ordinances and resolutions of the Commission.
PART 1:  ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
         Title
            
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
3.   LEGISLATIVE
            
5.   ADMINISTRATION
            
9.   FINANCES
            
11.   TAXATION
TITLE 1:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
101   Codified Ordinances
      
103   Public Meetings
      
105   Disposition of Real Property
      
107   Public Records Policy
CHAPTER 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
101.01   Designation; citation; headings
101.02   General definitions
101.03   Rules of construction
101.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
101.05   Construction of section references
101.06   Conflicting provisions
101.07   Determination of legislative intent
101.08   Severability
101.09   Masculine and feminine terms in ordinances; equality
 
101.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Citation issuance for minor misdemeanors, see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.
   Codification in book form, see Ohio R.C. 731.23
   Imprisonment until fine and costs are paid, see Ohio R.C. 1905.30, 2947.14
   Rules of construction for offenses and penalties, see §
501.04
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Statute of limitations on prosecutions, see Ohio R.C. 718.06; §
501.06
§ 101.01  DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (a)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
codified ordinances of the city for which designation “codified ordinances” may
be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the codified ordinances.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (b)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”.
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§
101.01”.
§ 101.02  GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read “or”, and OR may be read “and”, if the sense requires it.
(R.C. § 1.02(F))
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
(R.C. § 1.02(B))
   BOND. Includes an undertaking and “undertaking” includes a bond.
(R.C. § 1.02(D), (E))
   COUNCIL.  The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY.  Cuyahoga County, Ohio.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
(R.C. § 701.01(E))
   MUNICIPALITY or CITY. The City of East Cleveland, Ohio.
   OATH. Includes affirmation and SWEAR includes affirm.
(R.C. § 1.59(B))
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
(R.C. § 1.59(C))
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Real and personal property.
(R.C. § 1.59(E))
      (1)   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
      (2)   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail and “certified mail” includes
registered mail.
(R.C. § 1.02(G))
   RULE.  Includes regulation.
(R.C. § 1.59(F))
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   THIS STATE  or THE STATE.  The State of Ohio.
(R.C. § 1.59(G))
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT  or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others,
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
(R.C. § 1.02(A))
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  Includes any representation of words, letters,
symbols or figures. This provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
(R.C. § 1.59(J))
§ 101.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (b)   Singular and plural: gender; tense. As used in the codified
ordinances, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (c)   Calendar: computation of time.
      (1)   Definitions.
         WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
         YEAR.  Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. § 1.44)
      (2)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (3)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday. When a public
office, in which an act required by law is to be performed, is closed to the
public for the entire day which constitutes the last day for doing such act or
before its usual closing time on such day, then such act may be performed on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday. If any legal
holiday falls on Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (4)   When legislation is to take effect or become operative from and
after a day named, no part of that day shall be included.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (5)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (d)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (e)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority or inconsistent
with state statute or Charter provisions.
   (f)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 101.04  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (b)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
   (c)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (d) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
such privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and
the investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or
enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the
ordinance had not been repealed or amended.
   (d)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
§ 101.05  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   A reference to any portion of the codified ordinances applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (b)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (c)   (1)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation
of a series of sections or of divisions of a section, such reference shall be
construed to mean a violation of any section or division included in such
reference.
      (2)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
(R.C. § 1.23)
§ 101.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (a)   If there is a conflict between figures and words in expressing a
number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (b)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (c)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of Council are
irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of Council, one amendment without reference to another, the amendments
are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to each. If the
amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of enactment
prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted by an
earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
§ 101.07  DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (a)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (b)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (c)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 101.08  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of a section of the codified ordinances or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not
affect the other provisions or applications of the section or related sections
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 101.09  MASCULINE AND FEMININE TERMS IN ORDINANCES; EQUALITY.
   It is the policy of the city to make no distinction between men and women,
in connection with rights of employees and officers, in all matters of hiring,
promotion and other matters relating to employment with the city. Any city
ordinance written in the masculine shall be interpreted to include the feminine
as well unless the content clearly indicates that a different interpretation
was intended. Any city ordinance written in the feminine shall be interpreted
to include the masculine as well unless the content clearly indicates that a
contrary interpretation was intended.
(Ord. 7766, passed 2-19-1985)
§ 101.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
CHAPTER 103:  PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
103.01   Meetings: notice to public
103.02   Council committees: ordinance introduction
103.03   Meetings of other decision-making bodies of the city
103.04   Personal notice of meetings; fee
103.05   News media notice of meetings
103.06   Meetings to be public; exception
103.07   Minutes
103.08   Conflict of law
103.09   State law inapplicable
103.10   Separability
Cross-reference:
   Council meetings, see CHTR. §
103
   Open meeting law, see Ohio R.C. 121.22
§ 103.01  MEETINGS: NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
   (a)   Pursuant to §
102 of the Charter, at 7:30 p.m. on the second day of January following a
regular municipal election, or if such day be Sunday, on the day following, the
Council shall meet at the City Hall auditorium, hereinafter referred to as
“Council Chambers” at City Hall for the purpose of organization. Otherwise,
regular public meetings of Council shall be held in the Council Chambers at 6:
30 p.m. on the first and third Tuesdays of each month except during the months
of July and August wherein meetings shall be scheduled as provided by rule
adopted by resolution. When the date of such meetings falls on a legal holiday
or an election day, the regular session of Council shall be held on the
following day and at the place and hour hereinbefore fixed.
   (b)   Special meetings of Council and its committees shall be held in
Council Chambers upon notice as provided by §
103 of the Charter. No business shall be transacted at any special meetings of
Council or its committees except the particular business for which such special
meeting was called and the notice required by §
103 of the Charter shall contain a statement of business for the transaction of
which such special meeting is called.
   (c)   The regular meeting schedule of Council shall be permanently posted in
the permanently mounted, glass encased bulletin board located on the front of
the City Hall building. Notices of special meetings of Council and/or its
committees shall be posted in the same places as the notice of the regular
meeting schedule at least 24 hours prior to the time such meeting or meetings
are scheduled.
(Ord. 7122, passed 2-7-1978; Res. 47-04, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 103.02  COUNCIL COMMITTEES: ORDINANCE INTRODUCTION.
   (a)   (1)   The Executive Committee, which shall consist of all five members
of Council with the President and Vice President of Council being the
chairperson and vice-chairperson thereof, and the following standing
legislative policy committees are hereby established:
         A.   Finance Committee to consist of three Council members including
one Council member designated as the chairperson thereof, all to be appointed
by the President of Council;
         B.   Contracts and Property Committee to consist of three Council
members including one Council member designated as the chairperson thereof, all
to be appointed by the President of Council;
         C.   Personnel and Appointments Committee to consist of three Council
members including one Council member designated as the chairperson thereof, all
to be appointed by the President of Council;
         D.   General Services and Admin- istration Committee to consist of
three Council members including one Council member designated as the
chairperson thereof, all to be appointed by the President of Council; and
         E.   Health and Safety Services Committee to consist of three Council
members including one Council member designated as chairperson thereof, all to
be appointed by the President of Council.
      (2)   The President of Council shall appoint each Council member,
including himself or herself, as chairperson of one of the five aforementioned
standing legislative policy committees.
   (b)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions, to the extent practicable, shall
be prepared and submitted in writing to the Council office as sponsored by the
chairperson of the Executive Committee or the standing committee as appears
most closely to have jurisdiction over the subject of the ordinance or
resolution. Any ordinance or resolution so submitted may be assigned to the
Executive or any of the standing committees for further study when deemed
appropriate as determined either in writing by the Council President or by
motion adopted by Council. Referral to committees need not be a requirement for
passage of an ordinance and any ordinance may be removed from committee upon
appropriate motion adopted by a majority.
      (2)   Upon assignment of an ordinance, resolution or other legislative
matter to one of the standing legislative policy committees or the Executive
Committee, it shall be the duty of the chairperson of such committee to
consider the referred matter at its next meeting and it shall be the duty of
Council members on such committee to assemble at such meeting at the date, time
and place specified to deliberate on the referred matter and report on the
recommendations of the committee before or during the next regular Council
meeting, to the extent practicable. The chairperson of any standing legislative
policy committee or the Executive Committee shall be responsible for
preparation and issuance of meeting notices through the Clerk of Council for
all meetings of their respective committees.
   (c)   The Council, collectively or individually, has the right to request
duplication of public records for authorized city business, but if that request
equals or exceeds 50 pages, then the following conditions shall apply.
      (1)   The Council, collectively or individually, shall submit its request
in writing to the Mayor and describe the information being requested.
      (2)   If an individual member of Council is requesting the information,
then the member of Council shall notify the remaining members of Council in
writing regarding the nature of the information being requested.
      (3)   Any and all records for authorized city business use by the
Council, collectively or individually, shall be promptly made available to the
remaining members of Council, to avoid unnecessary duplication, multiple
requests and further time expended by a municipal department in gathering the
records.
      (4)   No records gathered by Council, collectively or individually, at
public expense be made available to, or given to any person not an employee or
officer of the city or otherwise, for use by any person or property interested
in any contract with the city which is the subject matter of the records, nor
to any party engaged in litigation, or threat of litigation, against, or
involving the city.
      (5)   Whenever the Council, collectively or individually, makes a request
from the custodian of city records of massive aggregates of public records at
public expense, in all cases where such records are the subject of litigation,
pending or immediately threatened, either the chairperson of the Council
committee, Clerk of Council or custodian of the records requested, copied or
given shall timely notify the Director of Law of such request in writing.
      (6)   Nothing herein shall be construed by the custodian of city public
records to prevent free access and copying of public records at personal
expense by a Council committee member where this rule is not followed, and in
which event, there shall be no reimbursement made to such Council committee
member who elects to demand copying and amassing voluminous records where this
rule is violated.
      (7)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent an individual Council
member from obtaining at any reasonable time, at least one free official copy
with certification thereof, of any resolution, ordinance, minutes of actions of
Council and of any and all Council-related correspondence, any and all
necessary papers for court and trial preparation, litigation or defense,
whenever there is litigation or threat of litigation involving a Council
member, and/or whenever litigation is occasioned by the fact that a Council
member is a Council member or by any acts of that Council member which resulted
in court action, copies of bid specs, contracts and other official papers and
documents of record, including a copy of records of travel and such other
documents as shall be reasonably deemed to be necessary and essential to a
Council member in the performance of official duties except that in this latter
instance, this rule shall apply as set forth in divisions (c)(1) through (c)(6)
above when massive records or voluminous data are sought.
      (8)   Except where the copying of more than 49 pages for the kinds of
data enumerated in division (c)(7) above is permitted, MASSIVE RECORDS or
VOLUMINOUS DATA as used hereinabove shall mean all public records except those
permitted to be had in division (c)(7) above where the number of pages exceed
49 pages; involve a research of one prior year’s records; or where two free
copies of the separate documents of records as contained in division (c)(7)
above are requested to be made for a Council member by the custodian of
records.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975; Ord. 51-07, passed 6-28-2007; Ord. 17-08, passed
4-1-2008)
§ 103.03  MEETINGS OF OTHER DECISION-MAKING BODIES THE CITY.
   All other boards, commissions, committees and other decision-making bodies
of the city shall adopt a rule establishing at least one particular day of each
month to be designated as the regular meeting day thereof. Such rules shall be
effective upon certification to the Clerk of Council who shall post such
regular meeting schedules in the same places as provided for in §
103.01 for the posting of the regular meeting schedule of Council. Otherwise,
no meeting of such body shall be held or conducted except after provision of
notice to the Clerk of Council who shall post such notices all in accordance
with the same procedure as pertains to special meetings of the Council and its
committees. A copy of the agenda of each regular meeting and a copy of any
notices of special meetings shall be filed with the Clerk of Council at least
72 hours prior to the time the meeting is scheduled unless accompanied with the
emergency reason for any shorter notice.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 103.04  PERSONAL NOTICE OF MEETINGS; FEE.
   Upon application and payment of an annual fee of $50 to the Clerk of
Council, the Clerk shall mail a copy of all the agenda or meeting notices of
Council, Council committees and all other boards, commissions, committees and
other decision-making bodies of the city, by regular mail within 24 hours of
receipt thereof by the Clerk, and any person may so apply.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 103.05  NEWS MEDIA NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (a)   Section
103.04 shall be applicable to any news media for one notice only without the
payment of the fee provided in the section. In addition, the Clerk of Council
shall attempt to call the number designated in the application of any news
media with respect to any meetings scheduled within less than 24 hours of the
notice received by the Clerk of Council.
   (b)   Upon request from any news media agent designated pursuant hereto, at
the beginning of each regular Council meeting, the Clerk of Council shall
provide copies of resolutions and ordinances to be introduced for the first
time at such meeting free of charge. However, this provision shall not apply
with respect to contract exhibits to ordinances or with respect to ordinances
or resolutions comprising six or more pages.
(Ord. 6837, passed 3-16-1976)
§ 103.06  MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC; EXCEPTION.
   Council, Council committees and all other boards, commissions, committees
and other decision-making bodies of the city shall conduct all meetings in
public called for the following purposes, except for executive sessions which
shall be closed to the public:
   (a)   Unless required by law or the affected party requests a public
hearing, to consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion, or compensation of a public employee or official, or the
investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee, official,
licensee or regulated individual. Except as otherwise provided by law, no
public body shall hold an executive session for the discipline of an elected
official for conduct related to the performance of his or her official duties
or for his or her removal from office;
   (b)   (1)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes or for
the sale of property at competitive bidding, if premature disclosure of
information would give an unfair competitive or bargaining advantage to a
person whose personal, private interest is adverse to the general public
interest. No member shall use this division as a subterfuge for providing
covert information to prospective buyers or sellers. A purchase or sale of
public property is void if the seller or buyer of the public property has
received covert information from a member that has not been disclosed to the
general public in sufficient time for other prospective buyers and sellers to
prepare and submit offers.
      (2)   If the minutes of the public body show that all meetings and
deliberations of the public body have been conducted in compliance with this
section, any instrument executed by the public body purporting to convey, lease
or otherwise dispose of any right, title or interest in any public property
shall be conclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance with this
section insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessees
or transferees of the property is concerned.
   (c)   Conferences with an attorney for the public body concerning disputes
involving the public body that are the subject of pending or imminent court
action;
   (d)   Preparing for, conducting or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment;
   (e)   Matters required to be kept confidential by federal law or rules or
state statutes or ordinances of the city;
   (f)   Specialized details of security arrangements where disclosure of the
matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for the purpose
of committing or avoiding prosecution for a violation of the law; and
   (g)   In a situation, incident or occasion which, in the sole opinion of
Council, constitutes an emergency concerning the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975; Ord. 6837, passed 3-16-1976; Ord. 7472, passed
3-17-1981)
§ 103.07  MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be taken for all meetings of Council, its committees and all
other boards, commissions, committees and other decision-making bodies of the
city and shall be filed with the Clerk of Council after approval. The minutes
shall reflect the business, if any, conducted except with respect to executive
sessions where the minutes shall reflect only the general subject discussed.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 103.08  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   All other ordinances and resolutions of the city are hereby repealed to the
extent that the same conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 103.09  STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   Ohio R.C. 121.22, as it exists and as it became effective on November 28,
1975 by virtue of Senate Bill 74, is void and shall not take effect and be in
force within the city with regard to the scheduling and notice of meetings or
otherwise with respect to the legislative authority, boards, commissions,
committees and all other decision-making bodies of the city, all of which shall
be exclusively controlled by the Charter, ordinances and resolutions of the
city.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 103.10  SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of this chapter is independent and the invalidity as declared
by judicial decree of any section of this chapter shall not affect or
invalidate or void any other section.
(Ord. 6779, passed 11-28-1975)
CHAPTER 105:  DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY
Section
105.01   Realty disposition procedure
105.02   Sale if no bid received
105.03   Different procedure authorized
105.04   Title transfer for unimproved, residential lots
Cross-reference:
   State law procedure, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 721
§ 105.01  REALTY DISPOSITION PROCEDURE.
   In the disposition of real property owned by the city and no longer needed
for a public purpose, the following procedure shall be followed.
   (a)   The Mayor shall obtain authority from Council to advertise for sale in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city once a week for not less
than two consecutive weeks, the address and legal description of the real
property proposed to be sold. Such notice shall list thereon the city’s
appraised value of the real estate where practical and shall invite proposal
bids from all parties interested in purchasing the described property. The
notice shall direct bidders to submit their proposals to the city within a
given time period. Such bid notice shall also contain space for the bid price
offered for such property, the bidder’s proposed use of such property and any
other specific criteria and/or information to be considered in evaluating the
award of sale.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the bid proposals, the Mayor shall evaluate such bids.
The factors to be considered in evaluating the bid proposals shall include
price, proposed use of the property and all other relevant considerations,
including those criteria and information described in the notice of bid. The
Mayor shall have broad discretion in evaluating bids submitted under the terms
of this section.
   (c)   The Mayor shall report all bids received to Council, together with his
or her recommendations.
   (d)   No real estate belonging to the city shall be sold or leased except
pursuant to an ordinance adopted by Council and setting forth:
      (1)   The identity of the successful bidder;
      (2)   A description of the real estate to be sold or leased;
      (3)   A finding that the real estate is not needed for public use;
      (4)   The reason for selling or leasing the real estate; and
      (5)   The kind of conveyance or lease to be given by the city.
(Ord. 7882, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 105.02  SALE IF NO BID RECEIVED.
   If no bid is obtained where required for the sale of real property to be
sold, and the procedures provided hereinabove have been followed, the Mayor may
sell such property at public or private sale for the best price obtainable,
subject to the approval of such sale by Council.
(Ord. 7882, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 105.03  DIFFERENT PROCEDURE AUTHORIZED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may, by ordinance
enacted hereafter, adopt a different procedure for the sale of any particular
parcel or piece of real or personal property.
(Ord. 7882, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 105.04  TITLE TRANSFER FOR UNIMPROVED, RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   Upon recommendation by the Neighborhood Advisory Committee, which oversees
city landbank sales, and subject to the approval of Council, the Mayor is
hereby authorized to transfer title to any unimproved, residential lot owned by
the city upon the following terms and conditions.
   (a)   For purposes of this program, any lot transferred pursuant to this
section shall not be used for residential construction or for resale
speculation. Appropriate deed restrictions shall be contained in the transfer
documents.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, ADJACENT  is defined as a lot sharing a
common boundary and fronting the same street (i.e., a side yard lot). The
definition of ADJACENT  does not include lots that abut the back or front of
the owner’s lot.
   (c)   Written notice of the availability of the lot shall be given to the
owners of the owner-occupied single- and two-family properties directly
adjacent to and abutting the lot on either side. With regard to properties in
which neighborhood stabilization program (NSP) funds were used to acquire or
pay holding costs, only adjacent property owners who fall within NSP income
guidelines will be given the opportunity to acquire the property as per NSP
program requirements.
   (d)   If only one adjacent owner is interested in purchasing the lot, the
lot may be sold to that property owner for the sum of $100 plus closing costs,
as well as the costs to survey and consolidate the lot with the owner’s parcel.
If both adjacent property owners are interested in purchasing the lot, the lot
shall be divided into two equal parts and sold to each party for the price of
$50 each, $100 total, plus closing costs as well as the costs of a lot division
and consolidation of the divided portion with the respective owner’s current
parcel, including, but not limited to, survey costs.
   (e)   Nothing herein shall require the city to offer any particular
unimproved city-owned lot to adjacent property owners, or shall otherwise be
construed to prohibit the sale or holding of a lot by the city for development
purposes or the use of said lots for community gardening or other public
purposes.
   (f)   The Neighborhood Advisory Committee may adopt rules, not inconsistent
with this section, for the implementation of this section.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 4-24-2012; Ord. 44-14, passed 10-21-2014)
CHAPTER 107:  PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
Section
107.01   Introduction
107.02   Public records
107.03   Records requests
107.04   Costs for public records
107.05   E-mail
107.06   Failure to respond to a public records request
§ 107.01  INTRODUCTION.
   It is the policy of the city that openness leads to a better informed
citizenry, which leads to better government and better public policy. It is the
policy of the city to strictly adhere to the state’s Public Records Act, being
R.C. Chapter 149. All exemptions to openness are to be construed in their
narrowest sense and any denial of public records in response to a valid request
must be accompanied by an explanation, including legal authority, as outlined
in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request is in writing, the explanation must
also be in writing.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 107.02  PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (a)   This office in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, defines RECORDS
as including the following: any document, paper, electronic (including, but not
limited to, e-mail), or other format that is created or received by, or comes
under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents the organization,
functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of
the office. All records of Council are public unless they are specifically
exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   It is the policy of the city that, as required by state law, records
will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying (see §
107.05 for the e-mail record policy). Record retention schedules are to be
updated regularly and posted prominently.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 107.03  RECORDS REQUESTS.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines.
   (a)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the records custodian must contact
the requester for clarification, and should assist the requester in revising
the request by informing the requester of the manner in which the office keeps
its records.
   (b)   The requester does not have to put a record request in writing, and
does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is this office’s general policy that this
information is not to be requested.
   (c)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonably period of time. PROMPT and REASONABLE take
into account the volume of records requested, the proximity of the location
where the records are stored, and the necessity for any legal review of the
records requested.
   (d)   (1)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately if feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
schedules, forms and applications, personnel rosters, and the like. If fewer
than 20 pages of copies are requested, or if the records are readily available
in an electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should
be made as quickly as the equipment and time allow.
      (2)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied or be
acknowledged in writing by the clerk within three business days following the
office’s receipt of the request. If a request is deemed significantly beyond
“routine,” such as seeking a voluminous number of copies or requiring extensive
research, the acknowledgment must include the following:
         A.   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy the
request;
         B.   An estimated cost if copies are requested; and
         C.   Any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
   (e)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, such redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 107.04  COSTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of making
copies.
   (a)   The charge for paper copies is $0.10 per page.
   (b)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1 per
disc.
   (c)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
   (d)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 107.05  E-MAIL.
   (a)   Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by the Ohio
Revised Code when their content relates to the business of the office. E-mail
is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats, and should
follow the same retention schedules.
   (b)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business are
subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of this office are
instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public business (see §
107.02) and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts and/or the office’s
records custodian.
   (c)   The records custodian is to treat e-mails from private accounts as
records of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way, retaining
them per established schedules and making them available for inspection and
copying in accordance with the Public Records Act, being R.C. Chapter 149.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
§ 107.06  FAILURE TO RESPOND TO A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   The city recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure to
properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the distrust in
government that failure to comply may cause, the city’s failure to comply with
a request may result in a court ordering the city to comply with the law and to
pay the requester attorney’s fees and damages.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-1-2008)
TITLE 3:  LEGISLATIVE
   Chapter
      
111   Council
      
113   Rules of order
CHAPTER 111:  COUNCIL
Section
111.01   President and Vice President of Council; annual election and
organizational meeting
111.02   Investigating committee
111.03   Council employees
Cross-reference:
   General Charter provisions, see CHTR. §§
98 et seq.
   Investigations, see CHTR. §
91
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 103
§ 111.01  PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL; ANNUAL ELECTION AND
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The election of a President and Vice President of the Council and conduct of
the organization meeting required by Charter or ordinance shall be in
accordance with the following provisions.
   (a)   Organizational meeting agenda. Subject to the other provisions of the
section, the organization meeting agenda shall be as follows:
      (1)   The oath of office shall be administered to all newly elected
Council members;
      (2)   Call to order to roll call;
      (3)   Election of President of Council;
      (4)   Election of Vice President of Council;
      (5)   Remarks of Council members;
      (6)   Remarks of citizens; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
   (b)   Chairperson of the meeting. The organization meeting shall be called
to order and until a new President is elected, conducted by the Mayor.
   (c)   Qualifications; challenge of newly elected Council member. The Clerk
of Council shall prepare oaths of office for all Council members certified as
elected by the Board of Elections to the Secretary of State or otherwise. The
oath shall be administered by a notary public who may be selected by the
elected Council member or otherwise by the Law Director. Any newly elected
Council member subscribing to the oath as hereinabove provided shall be
presumed elected and qualified, but subject at any time to the disqualification
and expulsion as provided by §
99 of the Charter and by law.
   (d)   Nominations. Any Council member shall be qualified to nominate any
other Council member or himself or herself for the office of President or Vice
President and no second shall be required. The nominations and election of the
President shall first be completed before proceeding with the nomination and
election of the Vice President.
   (e)   Voting. After nominations are closed, each Council member shall orally
vote for one of the candidates nominated upon roll call or shall vote by
ballot, if a motion is adopted by a majority of the Council members directing
election by ballot. Each Council member shall vote in each election or runoff
election upon roll call or by balloting, if adopted by motion.
   (f)   Votes required; runoff elections.
      (1)   Upon voting after nominations or upon a final runoff election, any
candidate receiving three or more votes in such election or final runoff
election for Council President or Vice President shall thereby be elected and
appointed to the respective office. Where upon voting there are more than two
candidates and no single candidate receives three votes, a final runoff
election shall be conducted between the two Council members receiving two
votes. Where upon voting there are more than two candidates, no single
candidate receives three votes, and only one candidate receives two votes,
there shall first be a preliminary runoff election among or between the
candidates receiving only one vote and a final runoff election shall then be
conducted between the candidate receiving the most votes in the preliminary
runoff election and the candidate initially receiving two votes.
      (2)   Council, upon motion adopted by a majority vote, shall determine
the manner of election in other situations not contemplated and controlled by
these provisions.
(Ord. 7125, passed 2-21-1978; Ord. 7465, passed 2-3-1981)
§ 111.02  INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.
   (a)   Upon a majority vote of members of Council, the President of Council
is hereby directed to and shall appoint such committee or committees to perform
and conduct any investigation into the conduct or operation of any city
official or department of the city government. Upon the appointment of any such
committee, the Council President shall notify Council through its Clerk, in
writing, of the individual members appointed to such committee, the date that
the investigation shall commence and the purpose for which such investigation
shall be held.
   (b)   The President of Council shall be the presiding officer of any
committee undertaking any investigation within the city and Council shall
appoint and provide the presiding officer with special legal counsel and the
counsel so appointed shall advise the presiding officer and Council on any and
all questions of law.
   (c)   All proceedings before any such committee by the Council President
shall be recorded and transcribed and the transcripts shall be dealt with in
the manner determined by a majority of the committee with regard to the use or
release of the evidence, testimony or information contained in the same.
   (d)   The committee hearings shall be held in such manner and at such times
as the presiding officer shall direct and shall be closed door hearings or
public hearings as the presiding officer shall direct, based upon the subject
matter to be under investigation or discussed by such committee.
   (e)   For the purposes of securing witnesses, testimony or evidence any such
committee shall have the power and authority to issue subpoenas or attachments
to compel the attendance of witnesses and/or produce any documents or evidence
deemed necessary by such committee.
   (f)   The committee shall endeavor to conclude any such investigation within
30 days from the date of its appointment and shall advise Council of any
conclusions, findings or recommendations in a written report to the entire
Council.
(Ord. 6680, passed 1-7-1975)
§ 111.03  COUNCIL EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   As authorized and mandated by §
102 of the Charter, in addition to and apart from the five elected public
officials who are Council members making up the legislative body of the city
consisting of one President of City Council, one Vice President and three
members of Council, together with a President Pro Tem who may be elected by
Council as deemed necessary in the absence of the President and Vice President,
the regular and part-time employees of the city within the organizational
structure of Council, the legislative branch of the city government, which may
be deemed for purposes of structure discussion as being similar to a “municipal
department”, the employees may consist of a Clerk who shall be appointed and/or
terminated by the President of Council, and Council may also elect such other
officers and employees of Council as it deems necessary, to serve at the
pleasure of Council. The President of Council shall adjust compensation for the
Clerk. In the event that the Council disagrees with a personnel decision that
has been made by the President of Council, the decision shall be overturned
provided a written letter signed by at least three members of Council is
submitted to the President of Council stating the decision that should be
overturned and the reasons for overturning the decision.
   (b)   In addition to the election by Council of one Clerk of Council, the
other officers and employees of Council as it deems necessary, to serve at the
pleasure of Council, shall not exceed the following: one Assistant Clerk of
Council; one Clerk Typist; one Deputy Clerk; and one special legal counsel and
any of these positions may be served either on a full- or part-time basis as
Council shall so determine. All employees appointed pursuant to this section
shall be appointed and/or terminated in the manner prescribed in division (a)
above and the compensation for these employees shall be adjusted in the manner
prescribed in division (a) above.
   (c)   Council hereby expressly reserves the authority and right granted to
it under §
102 of the City Charter, to designate, elect and to appoint such other officers
and employees of Council as it may deem necessary to serve at Council’s
pleasure; further, in addition to and notwithstanding the provisions in
division (b) above, as Council deems necessary, Council may also appoint any
officer or employee of the city under its jurisdiction, in its discretion, to
serve as Clerk Pro Tempore or as Deputy Clerk, in the absence of the Clerk upon
such terms, on such conditions and for such time as Council may determine.
   (d)   Nothing contained herein under this section shall be construed to
restrict and/or limit the freedom to make such additional, unspecified
appointments as it deems necessary from time to time, of professional persons
or entities, to serve under contract, duly authorized by law and to render in
behalf of the city or Council certain necessary and required professional
services, as is or may be rendered by such professional nonemployee as special
counsel, certified public accountants, auditors, bond counsel and such other
specialists, including, but not limited to, other nonprofessional persons such
as certified paralegals and other support staff, as deemed proper and necessary
and provided such contract professional services are all within authorized
appropriations.
(Ord. 77-08, passed 10-21-2008)
CHAPTER 113:  RULES OF ORDER
Rule
1   Regular and special meetings: efficient conduct
2   Attendance of members
3   Attendance of the Mayor and others
4   Preservation of order and appointment of committees
5   Rules governing
6   Suspension of rules
7   Amendment of rules
8   Legislation and legal opinions: requests, preparation and transmittal;
temporary legislation number
9   Order of business
10   Agenda: preparation, transmittal and limitations
11   Tape recording of meeting; transcripts
12   Minutes: form, transmittal and corrections
13   Right of floor
14   Time limitation of speaking
15   Hearings
16   Legislation: introduction and discussion
17   Motions
18   Reconsideration
19   Motion to take from the table
20   Voting: when necessary and method
21   Remarks and requests by members of public
22   Media
23   President and Vice President of City Council; organization, reorganization
and filling of vacancies
24   Prohibiting use of all cell phones, pagers, or other audible electronic
devices during Council meetings
RULE 1  REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS: EFFICIENT CONDUCT.
   Pursuant to Charter §
103 and
Chapter 103 of the codified ordinances, Council meets regularly at 6:30 p.m. on
the first and third Tuesdays of each month for the conduct of public business,
and the following provisions shall additionally apply to efficiently and
effectively utilize the time for meetings and otherwise of the Council members
and other city officials.
   (a)   Legislative Sponsor-Mayor. A copy of each piece of legislation shall
at the time of transmission to the Clerk for docketing, be transmitted by the
Mayor to the sponsor of such legislation, if any, assigned pursuant to §
103.02 of the codified ordinances, together with a memorandum explaining who
the Council sponsors may call for a more complete explanation of such
legislation to avoid the necessity of committee referrals and meetings whenever
possible.
   (b)   Scheduling of Council business. The fifth Tuesday of any month,
whenever occurring, is designated primarily for Council committee meetings. The
Mayor and Clerk of Council are directed to schedule all business of Council for
the meetings to be held on the first and third Tuesday.
   (c)   Special meetings schedule. Special meetings of the Executive Finance,
Personnel and Appointments, Contracts and Property, General Services and
Administration and Health Safety Service Committees, called pursuant to §
103.01 of the codified ordinances shall be scheduled, to the greatest extent
practicable, at 6:30 p.m. and on the following days:
      (1)   On the second and fourth Tuesdays of months containing only four
Tuesdays; or
      (2)   On the fifth Tuesday of months containing five Tuesdays. The call
of the Executive Committee meeting shall be given first preference.
   (d)   Regular Executive Committee meetings upon motion. Upon motion adopted
by a majority of Council members, the President of Council shall schedule
regular meetings of the Executive Committee for the period specified in the
motion and at the times designated in division (c) above to have the following
agenda:
      (1)   Review by Mayor of:
         A.   Prevailing procedures; and
         B.   Project progress as requested.
      (2)   Legislation anticipated to be docketed for next regular public
meeting;
      (3)   Review of items referred to Executive Committee for
recommendations; and
      (4)   Adjournment to:
         A.   Public meetings of other standing committees; and
         B.   Executive sessions of the Executive or other standing committee
which shall be scheduled by notice as provided for special meetings by §
103.01 of the codified ordinances.
   (e)   Summer schedule; recess. As permitted by Charter §
103 and §
103.01 of the codified ordinances, during the months of July and August,
Council shall have a regular public meeting only on the third Tuesday of such
months and such other special meetings for business or committee review as may
be determined necessary and called as prescribed by the Charter, ordinances and
rules of the city.
(Ord. 30-08, passed 7-15-2008)
RULE 2  ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   Council shall have the power to enforce the attendance of any of its members
at all meetings, regular and special, except in case of illness of the member,
severe illness or death in his or her family, or special leave granted by the
Council. When all the Council members present concur, such person as they may
designate may be detailed to bring absent members to any meeting in session or
to an adjourned session thereof.
RULE 3  ATTENDANCE OF THE MAYOR AND OTHERS.
   The Mayor, the Director of Finance and the Director of Law, or their
designated representatives, shall attend each meeting of Council and shall
answer such questions relating to the affairs of the city under their
respective management and control as may be put to them by any member of
Council.
(Ord. 103-04, passed 7-20-2004)
RULE 4  PRESERVATION OF ORDER AND APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   (a)   The Chair shall preserve order and decorum during sessions of Council;
decide all points of order subject to appeal to Council; appoint such
committees as may be ordered by Council and not otherwise appointed; and shall
have the right to call any Council member to the Chair for any part of the
session.
   (b)   The Chief of Police, or such member or members of the Department of
Police as he or she may designate, shall act as Sergeant-at-Arms at Council
meetings and shall remove any person ordered by the Chair to leave the meeting
for violation of the order and decorum thereof who refuses to obey such order.
(A.O.)
   (c)   Council members shall be removed from Council meetings as provided in
division (b) above, pursuant to motion adopted by a majority of the Council
members attending the meeting.
(Ord. 104-04, passed 7-20-2004)
RULE 5  RULES GOVERNING.
   The Charter and ordinances of the city and these rules, to the extent that
these rules are not in conflict with the Charter or ordinances of the city,
shall govern all proceedings of Council. Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern
all proceedings not otherwise herein provided for. It shall be the duty of the
presiding officer to adhere to and enforce such rules.
RULE 6  SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   These rules, or any of them, may be temporarily suspended at any public
meeting of Council, by a majority vote of all the members, except when a
greater number is required by these rules, the Charter or law. The vote on such
suspension shall be taken by “yeas” and “nays” and entered upon the Journal.
RULE 7  AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be amended or altered or new rules adopted by resolution
only.
RULE 8  LEGISLATION AND LEGAL OPINIONS: REQUESTS, PREPARATION AND TRANSMITTAL;
TEMPORARY LEGISLATION NUMBER.
   (a)   Assignments of legislation preparation; temporary number designation.
All legislation shall be prepared by the Administration as directed and
assigned by the Mayor and in accordance with the form prescribed by the Law
Director. The Mayor shall notify the Law Director of such legislative
assignments in writing as the same are made and the Law Director shall promptly
acknowledge such assignments to the Mayor and Clerk of Council in writing
designating:
      (1)   The title of such legislation; and
      (2)   A.   A temporary number: the consecutive number of legislative
assignments for any given year followed by a hyphen and the abbreviated year of
assignment enclosed in parenthesis (e.g., the designation of (7-76) would be
associated with the seventh legislative assignment made in 1976).
         B.   All legislation shall include the temporary number in the upper
right hand corner of the first page thereof and the agendas for regular Council
meetings shall include the temporary number and title for each piece of
legislation thereon. The temporary number of legislation shall be used in
reference thereto until after passage, whereupon the permanent ordinance or
resolution number assigned by the Clerk of Council shall be used.
   (b)   Transmission of legislation. The Law Director shall prepare or review,
and place in approved form, all legislation in the order and as the Mayor shall
direct. The Law Director shall transmit completed legislation to the Mayor and
provide a copy of the same to the affected department head, together with any
special instructions pertaining to the legislation. The Mayor shall transmit
legislation to the Clerk of Council, giving priority to items in accordance
with their relative importance and urgency, and the Clerk shall thereupon
transmit copies of the same to the Council members without undue delay,
retaining possession and custody of the originals. To the extent practicable,
the Mayor shall cause copies of all legislation to be transmitted through the
Clerk of Council to the Council members at least one week prior to the public
meeting of Council at which such legislation is to be introduced.
   (c)   Requests for legislation by Council members. Requests for legislation
by a Council member shall be made to the Mayor in writing and the Mayor shall
engage the services of the Law Department and Administration, accordingly,
when:
      (1)   The Mayor concurs in the request;
      (2)   The request is made by the President of Council;
      (3)   The request is part of the report recommended by the majority of a
Council Committee; or
      (4)   The Mayor is directed to prepare the legislation requested upon
motion carried by three affirmative votes of the Council members at a regular
public meeting.
      (5)   Where requests by the President of Council or by the majority of a
committee comprising less than three affirmative votes involve preparation of
five or more pages and the legislation would not be in the best interest of the
city in the opinion of the Mayor, the Mayor may appeal in writing the request
to the full Council and the Mayor shall not be required to assign the
preparation thereof unless and until directed by motion carried by three
affirmative votes of the Council members at a regular public meeting.
   (d)   Legal opinions. Legal opinions by the Law Director shall be requested
and transmitted in the same manner as legislation. All legal opinions shall be
considered confidential, except in cases wherein opinions are directed by
motion, carried by three affirmative votes of the Council members at a regular
public meeting to be read and incorporated in the minutes of such meeting.
   (e)   Proclamations, promulgation and recording.
      (1)   Proclamations as authorized by the Charter or by Law shall, upon
execution by the President of Council, be filed with the Clerk of Council who
shall cause the following to take place with respect to each such proclamation.
         A.   Each shall be serially numbered, the same as ordinances and
resolutions.
         B.   Copies thereof shall be made and delivered as soon as practicable
to the other Council members, the Mayor and such other persons as directed by
the President of Council.
         C.   Each shall be placed on the agenda for reading at the next
regular meeting or special meeting called for such purpose by title and number
assigned thereto.
         D.   Proclamations shall be maintained in bound volumes the same as
ordinances and resolutions. The Council President shall cause proclamations to
be read at the various meetings as they appear or are added to the agenda.
      (2)   Failure in any or all of the foregoing steps shall not act to
invalidate an otherwise valid proclamation.
(Res. 1820, passed 3-30-1976; Res. 1868, passed 5-31-1977)
RULE 9  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (a)   The business of all regular meetings of Council shall be transacted in
the following order, unless Council by a three-fifths affirmative vote suspends
the rules and changes the order:
      (1)   Call or order by the President;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Remarks of public on agenda items;
      (4)   Minutes to be approved;
      (5)   Hearings (conduct and scheduling);
      (6)   Reports and announcements of Mayor;
      (7)   Confirmation of appointments;
      (8)   Receipt of communications and petitions;
      (9)   Reports on Council Committees;
      (10)   Proclamations;
      (11)   Bids;
      (12)   Legislation;
      (13)   Remarks and requests of the public;
      (14)   Response of Council and Mayor to remarks of the public; and
      (15)   Adjournment.
   (b)   The presiding officer shall not permit an ordinance or resolution to
be introduced out of the regular order listed in the agenda, except upon motion
carried by a vote of three-fifths of Council to suspend this portion of the
rules to permit such introduction.
   (c)   The Clerk of Council shall announce each ordinance or resolution by
reading the title thereof in the order listed in the agenda. No ordinance or
resolution shall be introduced by the Mayor or a Council member at a public
meeting unless the same is listed on the agenda and a copy of such ordinance or
resolution was delivered to each Council member at least 24 hours immediately
preceding such public meeting, unless such 24-hour requirement is waived upon
motion carried by three affirmative votes of the Council members. All
ordinances and resolutions introduced and placed upon first or second reading
shall be deemed read by the Clerk upon reading the title only, since each
Council member is provided with a complete copy of each ordinance and
resolution.
(Res. 2005, passed 2-2-1982; Res. 2008, passed 3-2-1982; Ord. 105-04, passed 7-
20-2004; Ord. 02-10, passed 2-16-2010; Ord. 74-10, passed 8-17-2010; Ord. 14-
14, passed 3-18-2014)
RULE 10  AGENDA: PREPARATION, TRANSMITTAL AND LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   The Clerk of Council shall, each Friday immediately preceding a public
meeting of the Commission, prepare and transmit to each Council member and the
Mayor a copy of the agenda together with a copy of each piece of legislation to
be introduced. The agenda shall follow the format of the order of business
established by Rule 9 and shall specifically list:
      (1)   Minutes by date of meeting to be presented for reading and
approval;
      (2)   Hearings to be conducted or scheduled;
      (3)   Bids, ordinances and resolutions previously introduced and not
finally disposed of with a summary of action taken on each item;
      (4)   Bids, ordinances, resolutions and motions completed and transmitted
to the Clerk of Council pursuant to Rule 8 by 8:30 a.m. on such Friday or items
assigned a temporary number pursuant to Rule 8 and requested by the Mayor or
the Council President in writing prior to 11:00 a.m. on such Friday upon which
the agenda is to be prepared and transmitted; and
      (5)   Requests for recognition received in writing prior to 11:00 a.m. on
Friday upon which the agenda is to be prepared as aforesaid.
   (b)   Those agenda items only assigned a temporary number and requested by
the Mayor or President of Council shall be processed in accordance with Rule 8,
but shall be subject to the 24-hour limitation of Rule 9(b).
RULE 11  TAPE RECORDING OF MEETINGS; TRANSCRIPTS.
   (a)   The Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to make recordings of
all regular public meetings of Council. The Clerk of Council is authorized to
erase and reuse recording tapes of minutes after the minutes prepared from such
tapes have been approved and signed, but the Clerk of Council shall retain
recordings of Council hearings that may be necessary for court and other
proceedings until advised by the Director of Law that such recordings are no
longer necessary, at which time the same may be erased and the tapes reused.
The Clerk of Council shall have exclusive custody of such tapes of meetings,
subject to the right of the City Council members to listen to such tapes upon
request and under the supervision of the Clerk of Council. Transcripts of such
tapes shall be prepared by the Clerk of Council only upon motion of Council at
a public meeting passed by three affirmative votes. Such meeting transcripts
shall be maintained by the Clerk of Council, separately bound and exclusive of
the minutes. Upon motion, carried by three affirmative votes of Council, any
tape may be preserved indefinitely or as otherwise directed.
   (b)   Members of the public may use audio or video recording equipment in
meetings of the Council, but the recording equipment must be silent,
unobtrusive, self-contained, and self-powered to limit interference with the
ability of others to hear, see and participate in the meeting.
(Ord. 67-11, passed 9-20-2011)
RULE 12  MINUTES: FORM, TRANSMITTAL AND CORRECTIONS.
   The Clerk of Council shall promptly cause minutes to be prepared of every
public meeting of Council and transmit copies of the same to each Council
member and the Mayor. Such minutes shall reflect only the actions taken at any
particular meeting in general, concise terms and shall include only essential
facts, such as the general subject addressed, dates, legal requirements, and
identity of persons with respect to reports, announcements and other
commentaries. The minutes shall not contain any verbatim comments made by the
City Council or the Mayor. However, written statements read at a public meeting
submitted to the Clerk of Council may be attached and incorporated in the
minutes by reference upon motion passed by at least three affirmative votes of
Council. Otherwise, the minutes shall only reflect the source and subject to
the remarks as hereinabove provided. A Council member intending to correct any
particular set of minutes shall make such motion for correction in writing and
file the same with the Clerk of Council who shall certify on such written
motion whether the recording of the meeting in question “reflects” or “does not
reflect” the correction as applied for by motion before roll call on such
motion taken.
(Ord. 106-04, passed 7-20-2004)
RULE 13  RIGHT OF FLOOR.
   Any Council member or the Mayor who desires to address Council shall first
respectfully address the President of Council to seek recognition and, upon
being recognized, shall speak directly to the question under debate, avoid
personalties and refrain from impugning the motives of any other member’s
remarks or vote. When two or more of the Council members and Mayor seek
recognition at the same time, the President of Council shall designate the
order of speaking and such designation shall be final.
(Ord. 107-04, passed 7-20-2004)
RULE 14  TIME LIMITATION OF SPEAKING.
   No Council member or the Mayor shall be allowed to speak for a longer time
than three minutes at any one time without permission of Council. No Council
member or the Mayor shall speak more than once on the same subject or motion
until every other member desiring to speak on that motion shall have had an
opportunity to do so.
(Ord. 108-04, passed 7-20-2004; Ord. 03-10, passed 2-16-2010; Ord. 79-12,
passed 9-4-2012)
RULE 15  HEARINGS.
   (Reserved)
RULE 16  LEGISLATION: INTRODUCTION AND DISCUSSION.
   Upon reading of the title of an ordinance or resolution by the Clerk of
Council, the Council member sponsoring the ordinance or resolution and the
Mayor shall explain the purpose thereof, specifically request the action to be
taken thereon, and answer questions of Council to clarify such purpose and
request, only, after which, such ordinance or resolution shall be considered
introduced and the property of Council to dispose of. Discussion otherwise of
an ordinance or resolution during its introduction is and shall be ruled by the
President of Council to be out of order. After introduction of an ordinance or
resolution, the President of Council shall entertain only motions to deal with
such ordinance or resolution, such as placing on first or second reading,
suspension of the rules, referral to committee, passage and the like. If no
such motion is made and seconded, the President of Council shall declare such
introduced ordinance or resolution “lost” and proceed with the next item on the
agenda. Otherwise, ordinary discussion by Council and Mayor shall be in order
with respect to every duly seconded motion made pertaining to the passage of
such introduced ordinances or resolutions.
(Ord. 109-04, passed 7-20-2004)
RULE 17  MOTIONS.
   (a)   Purpose and form. Motions shall be used only to expedite the orderly
transaction of the business of Council and shall not be substituted for
resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions shall be “I move that”
followed by the substance of the motion and such motion shall not be complete
unless and until seconded. Upon demand by any member of Council, the movant
shall reduce the motion to writing and file a copy of the same with the Clerk.
Any such motion may be withdrawn by the maker or movant before it has been
amended or voted upon. When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be
recognized by the President of Council before any debate shall be in order. All
motions which have been entertained by the President of Council shall be
entered upon the Journal.
   (b)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is before Council, no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
         A.   To fix the time of adjournment;
         B.   To adjourn;
         C.   To recess;
         D.   For the previous question;
         E.   To lay on the table;
         F.   To postpone to a day certain;
         G.   To refer to a committee;
         H.   To amend; and
         I.   To postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. Motions
to adjourn, recess, lay on the table or for the previous question shall be put
to a vote without debate; motions to fix the time of adjournment or postpone to
a day certain shall be debatable only as to the time of adjournment or
postponement; and all other motions shall be debatable.
RULE 18  RECONSIDERATION.
   After the decision of any question, any Council member who voted with the
majority may move a reconsideration of any action at the same or the next
succeeding meeting. A motion to reconsider shall require a majority vote of all
the Council members. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted
upon, no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without
unanimous consent of the members present.
RULE 19  MOTION TO TAKE FROM THE TABLE.
   A motion to take from the table shall be in order when that order of
business is being transacted in which such matter to be taken up was laid upon
the table, or under the head of new or miscellaneous business, and such motion
shall be decided without debate, provided the mover may be permitted to state
briefly his or her reasons for the motion.
RULE 20  VOTING: WHEN NECESSARY AND METHOD.
   (a)   Every member present, when a question is put, shall vote. However, a
member expressing a conflict in any particular matter shall be excused and
shall leave the meeting temporarily until the matter of conflict has been
disposed of.
   (b)   A “yea” and “nay” vote shall be taken for the passage or adoption of
all ordinances and resolutions and shall be taken upon any other motion duly
seconded. In taking the “yea” and “nay” vote, the Clerk shall first call the
names of the regular members in their alphabetical order, saving the Vice
President and President last in that order, and the “yea” and “nay” shall be
entered on the journal.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 2-17-2004)
RULE 21  REMARKS AND REQUESTS BY MEMBERS OF PUBLIC.
   Any resident of or proprietor of a business located in the city may appear
and be heard by Council during the portion of the meeting designated for
remarks of the public, subject to limitations of
Rule 9, and such limitations as are set forth hereinafter and elsewhere in the
rules of order.
   (a)   Each person addressing Council shall rise, come to the bar, give his
or her name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and unless
further time is granted by Council, shall limit the address to two minutes in
the opening portion of the meeting, while speaking on agenda items only; and to
three minutes at the closing portion of the meeting when making remarks or
requests in general.
   (b)   All remarks shall be addressed to Council as a body and not to any
member thereof.
   (c)   Council has provided under
Rule 9 for remarks of the public at both the beginning of regular Council
meetings under Rule 9(a)(3), and for remarks of the public at the close of
regular Council meetings under
Rule 9(a)(13). A person qualified to address Council may speak twice at any
given meeting limited to two minutes at the beginning portion of the meeting
and limited to three minutes at the closing portion of the meeting. No person
shall address Council more than two times at any given meeting.
   (d)   The privilege herein granted is a unique personal privilege, and no
person may “give away” time he or she would use if permitted, to another.
   (e)   The President may limit the number of persons to address Council on
the same subject.
   (f)   Whoever addresses Council at the beginning of the meeting speaks
primarily under the limits and authority of
Rule 9(a)(3), “remarks of public on agenda items”, and subject to the
requirement that such person may only speak to items that are listed on Council
agenda. Further, no discussion shall ensue from the address of any person
during this portion of the meeting.
   (g)   Whoever addresses Council at the close of the meeting speaks primarily
under authority of
Rule 9(a)(13), “Remarks and requests of the public”, and such person is not
subject to the requirement of speaking only to items that are listed on the
Council agenda.
   (h)   At the completion of remarks and requests of the public, Council and
the Mayor may respond to the remarks of the public, subject to limitations of
Rules 13 and
14.
(Res. 2087, passed 2-21-1984)
RULE 22  MEDIA.
   At any time during the course of Council meetings convened and brought to
order under
Rule 9 of these rules of order, the President of Council may respond to
requests from members of the public or members of the news media to record the
proceedings which shall then be approved by a majority vote of Council upon
motion duly made and seconded.
(Res. 2007, passed 2-16-1982)
RULE 23  PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION,
REORGANIZATION AND FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   The organization, reorganization and the filling of vacancies of the Council
offices of President and Vice President shall be in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (a)   Organization. The organization of Council shall be as prescribed by §
102 of the Charter of the city.
   (b)   Reorganization. The reorganization of Council may occur at any time,
by motion, upon the vote of three-fifths of the members of Council.
   (c)   Vacancy. When a vacancy occurs in the office of President or Vice
President, it shall be filled, by motion, by the vote of three-fifths of the
members of Council.
(Res. 2276, passed 10-11-1988)
RULE 24  PROHIBITING USE OF CELL PHONES, PAGERS, OR OTHER AUDIBLE ELECTRONIC
DEVICES DURING COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (a)   No person shall have in his or her possession or under his or her
control any cellular phone, pager or other electronic device that creates a
noise during the conducting of Council business.
   (b)   Any cellular phone, pager or other electronic device that creates a
noise during a convened Council meeting shall be confiscated by any city police
officer or his or her designee. The item shall be returned after the meeting
only upon payment of a fee of $10 to the Department of Finance.
(Res. 03-04, passed 1-20-2004)
TITLE 5:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
121   Departmental Organization
      
122   Nonclassified Service
      
123   Civil Service
      
127   Employment Provisions
      
129   Police and Fire Departments
      
131   Planning Commission
      
133   Citizens Advisory Committee
      
137   Ordinance Enforcement
      
139   Historic Preservation Board
      
141   Audit Committee
      
143   Youth Commission
CHAPTER 121:  DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION
Section
121.01   Duties and functions
121.02   Filling positions
121.03   Compensation and bonds
121.04   Creation of additional departments
121.05   Municipal Court
121.06   Fire Department
121.07   Police Department
121.08   Police Department; Crime Prevention Bureau
121.09   Rules and regulations
121.10   Position of Law Director designated as full-time
Cross-reference:
   Board of Building Code Appeals, see
Ch. 1311
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see CHTR. §
85-B;
Ch. 1107
   Creation of departments, see CHTR. §
22
   Qualifications and duties of directors, see CHTR. §
23
§ 121.01  DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   Except as specifically provided by state law, by City Charter or by action
of Council, the duties and functions of departments, divisions or individual
employees shall be as prescribed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 5856, passed 11-28-1967)
§ 121.02  FILLING POSITIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the Mayor
to fill any position herein provided. The Mayor shall have full authority to
leave positions vacant or to combine the duties of two positions under a single
employee whenever he or she deems it to be in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 5856, passed 11-28-1967)
§ 121.03  COMPENSATION AND BONDS.
   Salaries or compensation and the amount of bonds for the officers and
employees herein listed shall be fixed by Council or, in the case of employees
of the Municipal Court, as provided by state law. The premium for any bond
required for an employee shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 5856, passed 11-28-1967)
§ 121.04  CREATION OF ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENTS.
   In addition to the five administrative departments created by the Charter,
there shall be a Department of Community Development, a Department of Parks and
Recreation, a Department of Human Resources, a Department of Police, a
Department of Fire, and such other departments and divisions as may be
established by legislation of Council.
(Ord. 155-03, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 121.05  MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (a)   The employees in the Municipal Court shall not exceed one Judge, one
Acting Judge functioning at any given time, one Clerk of Court, one Court
Administrator, and such other officers and employees as authorized by
ordinance.
   (b)   In addition to the above enumerated positions in the Municipal Court,
nothing herein shall preclude Council from providing such other additional
employees as are necessary, each of whom shall be paid such compensation out of
the city treasury as Council prescribes, unless the compensation for such
additional employees is otherwise provided for by state law.
   (c)   The limitation to one Acting Judge as stipulated in division (a)
above, shall not preclude the appointment of more than one Acting Judge
provided that no Acting Judge shall function at the same time or period as that
of another Acting Judge, and nor shall one Acting Judge be compensated for the
same time or period as another Acting Judge.
   (d)   The Director of Law shall act as prosecutor of the Municipal Court and
the Assistant Directors of Law shall act as assistant prosecutors.
   (e)   In additional to any Deputy Clerks authorized by ordinance, the Clerk
of Court may appoint any or all officers in the Police Department to serve as
Deputy Clerks without bond or extra compensation.
   (f)   All appointments and salaries within the Municipal Court shall be in
accordance with applicable state law unless state law shall provide otherwise.
(Ord. 7663, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 121.06  FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Classified service. Within the Department of Public Safety, there
shall be a Fire and Emergency Medical Services Division, which may be composed
of a total of not more than 50 officers in the classified service. Of this
number, there may not be more than one Fire Chief, four Captains, six
Lieutenants, 38 regular firefighters and one regular firefighter assigned by
the Mayor to the position of Superintendent of Fire Equipment.
   (b)   Temporary increases. In addition to the total number of officers
authorized in division (a) above, temporary increases in this authorized
strength, not to exceed three officers, of any rank or grade are permitted
when, in anticipation of an impending resignation or retirement, it is in the
best interests of the city that an immediate appointment be made to fill the
anticipated vacancy. Such temporary increases in departmental strength shall
not exceed 90 days.
   (c)   Grades.
      (1)   The regular firefighters shall be divided into first, second and
third grades, as follows.
         A.   The first grade shall include only regular firefighters who have
continuously served in the Department as regular firefighters two or more
years.
         B.   The second grade shall include only regular firefighters who have
continuously served in the Department as regular firefighters more than one
year but less than two years.
         C.   The third grade shall include only regular firefighters who have
continuously served in the Department as regular firefighters less than one
year.
      (2)   When by reason of continuous service, a regular firefighter is
eligible for advancement from a lower grade to a higher grade, there shall be
no increase in his or her salary until he or she has been duly advanced by the
Mayor.
   (d)   Temporary firefighters. In addition to the regular firefighters herein
provided for, the Mayor may, in the event of emergencies, appoint not to exceed
20, temporary firefighters who shall serve not longer than 90 days. Such
temporary firefighters shall not be subject to civil service rules of
appointment, shall not be under civil service and shall not be entitled to
participate in the Police and Firefighters’s Disability and Pension Fund.
   (e)   Unclassified service. There shall be one Executive Assistant to the
Chief of Fire.
(Ord. 7588, passed 9-21-1982; Ord. 27-91, passed 4-2-1991; Ord. 13-11, passed
3-1-2011)
§ 121.07  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Classified service. The Police Department shall be composed of a total
of not more than 74 officers under the classified civil service. Of this
number, there shall be not more than one Chief of Police, one Captain, five
Lieutenants, 14 Sergeants and 52 patrol officers, such 14 Sergeants positions
to be authorized only until such time as vacancies arise within the Police
Department which would absorb same, until the number of Sergeants in the
Department is re-established at a maximum of 12.
   (b)   Temporary increases. In addition to the total number of officers
authorized in division (a) above, temporary increases in this authorized
strength of not to exceed three officers of any rank or grade, are permitted
when in anticipation of an impending resignation or retirement, it is in the
best interests of the city that an immediate appointment be made to fill the
anticipated vacancy. Such temporary increases in departmental strength shall
not exceed 90 days.
   (c)   Unclassified service. In addition to the foregoing employees under
classified civil service, there shall be employees of the Police Department who
shall be in the unclassified service and who shall not exceed 30 special police
commission officers, ten civilian officer personnel, 25 traffic guards, one
youth coordinator, one secretary, one stenographer, two clerks, six matrons,
one range superintendent, one mechanic, one parking meter foreman, 12 community
service officers and ten additional laborers, mechanics and parking meter
attendants.
   (d)   Grades.
      (1)   The regular patrol officers shall be divided into first, second and
third grades, as follows.
         A.   The first grade shall include all regular patrol officers who
have continuously served in the Department two or more full years.
         B.   The second grade shall include all the regular patrol officers
who have continuously served in the Department more than one year but less than
two years.
         C.   The third grade shall include only regular patrol officers who
have continuously served in the Department less than one year.
      (2)   When, by reason of continuous service, a patrol officer is eligible
for advancement from a lower to a higher grade, there shall be no increase in
his or her salary until he or she has been duly advanced by the Mayor.
   (e)   Temporary special duties. A police officer assigned temporary special
duties may be granted a temporary increase in pay by the Mayor while assigned
to such special duties, subject to the limitations of the salary ordinance
affecting the rank held by such police officer.
   (f)   Temporary patrol officers. In addition to the regular patrol officers
herein provided for, the Mayor may, in the event of strikes, riots or other
emergencies, appoint not to exceed 30 temporary patrol officers, who shall
serve not longer than 90 days. Such temporary patrol officers shall not be
subject to civil service rules of appointment, nor be under civil service, nor
shall they be entitled to participate in the Police and Firefighters’s
Disability and Pension Fund.
(Ord. 5856, passed 11-28-1967; Ord. 7624, passed 3-15-1983; Ord. 7846, passed
9-30-1986)
§ 121.08  POLICE DEPARTMENT; CRIME PREVENTION BUREAU.
   (a)   A Crime Prevention Bureau within the Police Department of the city is
hereby established which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief
of the Police Department, under the direction and control of the Director of
Safety. The person in charge of the Bureau of Crime Prevention shall be
referred to and known as “Officer in Charge of Bureau of Crime Prevention” and
shall be appointed by the Chief of the Police Department, on the basis of his
or her qualifications. The Police Chief shall designate such other officers and
members of that Department, as he or she may from time to time deem necessary,
as crime prevention officers for duties incident to the operation of the
Bureau.
   (b)   (1)   The duties of the Crime Prevention Bureau shall be:
         A.   To develop methods and systems for the prevention, detection and
reporting of crime, including methods and systems involving citizen
participation;
         B.   To conduct educational programs designed to advise the public of
measures which may be taken to assist in the prevention of crimes;
         C.   To advise home owners, apartment owners and business owners
relative to the installation and maintenance of security systems, alarms,
locks, lighting and other safeguards;
         D   To review and approve plans for the construction of all structures
within the city to ascertain security hazards and the elimination thereof as
may be required by ordinance or state law;
         E.   To review the investigation and circumstances of all crimes in
order to evaluate crime prevention measures which may be established in the
future and determine the feasibility of existing crime prevention measures and
devices;
         F.   To advise other members of the Police Department, not in the
Crime Prevention Bureau, relative to various crime prevention practices and
measures;
         G.   To establish procedures for the security and transportation of
large sums of money and other valuables;
         H.   To establish procedures for the security for public officials and
other dignitaries while in the city; and
         I.   To enforce all ordinances of the city relative to crime
prevention.
      (2)   The Bureau shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties as are set forth in other sections of this code and other ordinances,
and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by law. This delegation
of duty shall not relieve any other department, officer or employee of the city
of any power or duty conferred upon it or by him or her by law or ordinances.
   (c)   The members of the Crime Prevention Bureau may at all reasonable
hours, enter any building, or premises within their jurisdiction for the
purpose of inspecting same to ascertain whether there exists any hazard to
crime prevention which is required to be corrected by ordinance.
(Ord. 6990, passed 4-5-1977)
§ 121.09  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Except to the extent rules and regulations are specifically
established by Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
establish rules and regulations governing all city employees.
   (b)   Such rules and regulations shall be in written form on file in the
office of the Mayor, and may be amended from time to time at the discretion of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 5366, passed 12-12-1961)
§ 121.10  POSITION OF LAW DIRECTOR DESIGNATED AS FULL-TIME.
   The position of the Director of Law is hereby designated a full-time
position with the city, in compliance with §
113B of the City Charter.
(Ord. 228-03, passed 1-20-2004)
CHAPTER 122:  NONCLASSIFIED SERVICE
Section
122.01   Residency requirement
Cross-reference:
   Unclassified service, see CHTR. §
29
§ 122.01  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (a)   On and after passage hereof, all original and department director
appointments in the nonclassified service of the city shall be made upon the
condition that the appointee shall reside within the city during the employment
of such appointee in any position in the nonclassified service of the city,
which condition shall not be waived except by the Mayor during the first six
months of employment. Where, due to part- time requirements or unique skill
requirements or location of work or other reasons, imposition of the aforesaid
residency requirement is impractical or otherwise precludes securing service
necessary for the good of the city, positions may be exempted from such
requirement by ordinance. The Mayor shall notify Council of any necessary
position remaining unfilled after six months, primarily by reason of the
residency requirement of this section in the opinion of the Mayor. The term
RESIDE as used herein shall be construed to mean the maintaining of a residence
which is the actual bona fide domicile of the individual where he or she
normally eats, sleeps, maintains normal household and personal effects and
represents as his or her domiciliary address for purposes of taxation, license
registration, voting and otherwise.
      (1)   This requirement of residency during employment shall not be
applied retroactively nor to present employees of the city.
      (2)   This requirement of residency during employment shall, however, be
binding according to law and the terms hereof, upon all future employees of the
city, from and after the effective date of this section, unless the condition
is waived, exempted or specially excepted by ordinance.
   (b)   Pursuant to division (a) above, Council hereby exempts the special
legal counsel from the residency requirements set forth herein.
   (c)   No person shall, in any way, falsify or misstate verbally or in
writing any application, paper, document or form, which relates his or her
employment with the city, that he or she is a resident of the city, when in
fact he or she is not a bona fide resident of the city. Any officer or employee
of the city who is found to have supplied or furnished false or misleading
information concerning his or her true residence or who fails to become a
resident as herein required, or who, being a resident or having become a
resident of the city, subsequently establishes a residence outside of the city,
shall, after hearing, according to law, be discharged from service with the
city.
(Ord. 16-95, passed 3-21-1995)
CHAPTER 123:  CIVIL SERVICE
Section
123.01   Civil Service Commission
123.02   Civil Service classification
123.03   Appointments, promotions and probation
123.04   Cause for suspension, demotion or removal
123.05   Charges, hearing and appeal of suspension, demotion or removal
123.06   Temporary appointments; vacancies and promotional appointments
123.07   Entrance examinations and qualifications in classified service
123.08   Promotional examinations and qualifications in classified service
123.09   Eligible lists
123.10   Leave of absence for temporary military training or active duty
Cross-reference:
   Appointments and removals, see CHTR. §
30
   Civil Service Commission, see CHTR. §
28
   Employment classification, see CHTR. §
29
   State law provisions, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 124
§ 123.01  CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   (a)   Creation. As provided by City Charter §
28, there shall be a Civil Service Commission consisting of three members who
are qualified electors of the city, not more than two of whom shall belong to
the same political party, and who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to
the approval and confirmation of Council.
   (b)   Compensation. The salary of a member of the Civil Service Commission
shall be as provided by Council in the salary ordinance.
   (c)   Term and vacancy. The term of office of a member of the Civil Service
Commission shall be six years and such member shall be subject to
reappointment. The Mayor shall fill all vacancies by appointment for the
unexpired term, subject to the approval and confirmation of Council.
   (d)   Removal from office. The Mayor may at any time remove any Civil
Service Commissioner for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office, having first given to such Commissioner a copy of the charges against
him or her and an opportunity to be publicly heard in person or by counsel in
his or her own defense. Any such removal shall be final.
   (e)   Officers and meetings. The Civil Service Commission shall elect a
President from its membership who shall serve until a successor is duly
elected. The Mayor shall appoint a Secretary of the Civil Service Commission
subject to the approval and confirmation of the Civil Service Commission. The
Secretary need not be a member of the Civil Service Commission. The Civil
Service Commission shall meet upon the call of the President or Secretary.
   (f)   Keeping files and records. All applications, reports, examination
papers, certificates and other papers and documents received by the Civil
Service Commission in connection with civil service employment shall become the
property of the Civil Service Commission and must be filed in the office of the
Civil Service Commission and kept there for not less than three years from the
date of the establishment of the eligible list, except that the examination
papers of those failing to pass may be destroyed after 90 days from such date.
   (g)   Examinations. The various parts of a promotional or entrance
examination and the proportion of the total grade allocated to each part shall
be fixed by the Civil Service Commission.
(Ord. 5541, passed 3-12-1964)
§ 123.02  CIVIL SERVICE CLASSIFICATION.
   (a)   As provided by City Charter §
29, the civil service of the city is hereby divided into the unclassified and
the classified service.
   (b)   The unclassified service shall include:
      (1)   All officers elected by the people;
      (2)   The Mayor, and all directors of departments;
      (3)   The members of all boards or commissions appointed by Council or
the Mayor; and
      (4)   The Clerk of Council and all other employees not herein
specifically included in the classified service.
   (c)   The classified service shall consist of the regular members of the
Police Department and the full-time members of the Division of Fire Services.
(Ord. 5541, passed 3-12-1964; Ord. 32-10, passed 8-23-2010)
§ 123.03  APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS AND PROBATION.
   (a)   All appointments and promotions in the classified service of the city
shall be made by the Mayor according to merit and fitness, which shall be
ascertained by competitive examinations, and on and after passage hereof, or by
successful completion of a probationary period as a basic patrol officer as
governed under the collective bargaining agreement, or by lateral transfer as
an Ohio Certified Firefighter Level 2/Ohio, at a minimum EMT-B classification
with current Ohio certifications and at least one year or 500 hours of
experience as a full or part-time firefighter/paramedic. All appointments and
promotions shall be for a probationary period of one year, and no appointment
or promotion is final until the employee has satisfactorily served his or her
probationary period. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an
employee appointed or promoted in the classified service shall be subject to
removal or demotion by the Mayor at any time during the probationary period
without appeal to the Civil Service Commission if, in the opinion of the Mayor,
his or her services are unsatisfactory.
   (b)   This requirement of residency during employment shall not be applied
retroactively, nor to present employees of the city.
   (c)   This requirement of residency during employment shall, however, be
binding according to law and the terms hereof upon all future employees of the
city, from and after the effective date of this section, unless the condition
is waived, exempted or specially excepted by ordinance.
   (d)   (1)   No person shall, in any way, falsify or misstate verbally or in
writing any application, paper, document or form, which relates to his or her
employment with the city, that he or she is a resident of the city, when in
fact he or she is not a bona fide resident of the city.
      (2)   Any officer or employee of the city who is found to have supplied
or furnished false or misleading information concerning his or her true
residence or who fails to become a resident as herein required, or who, being a
resident or having become a resident of the city, subsequently establishes a
residence outside of the city, shall, after hearing, according to law, be
discharged from service with the city.
(Ord. 16-95, passed 3-21-1995; Ord. 04-18, passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 24-19, passed
5-7-2019)
§ 123.04  CAUSE FOR SUSPENSION, DEMOTION OR REMOVAL.
   The tenure of every officer or employee in the classified service of the
city, holding a position under the provisions of this chapter, shall be during
good behavior and efficient service, but any officer or employee may lose
vacation and furlough days, be suspended, demoted or removed for incompetency,
inefficiency, dishonesty, drunkenness, immoral conduct, insubordination, using
profane or indecent language, discourteous treatment of the public, neglect of
duty or other failure of good behavior, dealing in intoxicating liquor,
conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, a finding of a violation of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 102 by the appropriate ethics commission pursuant to complaint under
Ohio R.C. 102.06, failure to file or falsely filing any statement required by
Ohio R.C. 102.02, failure to obey departmental orders, rules and regulations or
any other act of misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office, or for
other reasonable and just cause.
(Ord. 6752, passed 8-5-1975)
§ 123.05  CHARGES, HEARING AND APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, DEMOTION OR REMOVAL.
   (a)   No officer or employee in the classified service shall have vacation
or furlough days taken away, or be suspended, demoted or removed except for
cause and after hearing before the Mayor, except that the Chief or Acting Chief
of the Police Department or the Chief or Acting Chief of the Fire Department
may suspend an officer or employee temporarily for a period not to exceed ten
days pending a hearing before the Mayor.
   (b)   The charges against such officer or employee shall be in writing, and
shall be specific. The hearing before the Mayor on such charges shall be
conducted in an informal manner. The Mayor shall have such authority and powers
as may be necessary to summon witnesses and to cause them to appear before him
or her to testify regarding matters that may be under consideration. The
officer or employee charged shall be entitled to have the Mayor summon
witnesses for such hearing to testify in his or her behalf.
   (c)   Upon a finding of guilty of such charge or charges, the Mayor shall
have the authority:
      (1)   To take away or forfeit any portion of such officer’s or employee’s
vacation or furlough days for a one-year period;
      (2)   To suspend without pay for purposes of discipline an officer or
employee for any period not to exceed 30 days, provided, however, that
successive suspensions shall not be allowed, except that an officer or employee
indicted for commission of a felony may be suspended without pay until found
not guilty of such charge, or the charge against him or her is dismissed;
      (3)   To demote in rank; and/or
      (4)   To remove such officer or employee from the service or employment.
   (d)   Any officer or employee having vacation or furlough days taken away,
or who is suspended, demoted or removed, may appeal in writing the decision or
order of the Mayor, to the Civil Service Commission, provided that such written
notice of appeal is filed with the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission
within ten days from the receipt of such order or decision by such officer or
employee. Upon receipt of the written notice of appeal, the Civil Service
Commission shall set a date for hearing such appeal within 30 days from the
receipt of the notice of appeal, and shall notify the Mayor and the appellant
of the date and time of hearing.
   (e)   The Civil Service Commission shall have and may exercise such powers
as may be necessary to summon witnesses and to cause them to appear before it
to testify regarding matters that may be under consideration. The hearing shall
be conducted in an informal manner and the Civil Service Commission shall be
the sole judge of the admissibility of evidence. The Civil Service Commission
may affirm, modify or disaffirm the decision or order of the Mayor.
§ 123.06  TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS; VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONAL APPOINTMENTS.
   (a)   Positions in the classified service may be temporarily filled without
competition when, in the judgment of the Mayor, there are urgent reasons for
filling a vacancy in any position in the classified service, but in no case
shall such temporary appointment continue longer than 39 hours in the work week
and no longer than 1,440 hours.
   (b)   Positions in the classified civil service may be temporarily filled
without competition when, in the judgment of the Mayor, there are urgent
reasons for filling a vacancy in any promotional position in the classified
civil service, but in no case shall such temporary appointment continue longer
than 180 consecutive days in a calendar year.
(Ord. 46-92, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 123.07  ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS IN CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (a)   Applicants must be citizens of the United States and must be residents
of the state.
   (b)   Application shall be made upon forms furnished by the Civil Service
Commission. An applicant may be disqualified if he or she does not appear to
take any part of the examination.
   (c)   No applicant shall be placed on an eligible list or appointed in the
classified service unless he or she is certified as being physically qualified
by the Director of Health after medical examination. The Director of Health
shall establish physical standards for qualification and shall be the sole
judge of whether an applicant meets these standards.
   (d)   To be eligible for appointment as a police officer or firefighter in
the classified service, the applicant must be at least five feet, eight inches
in height, but not over six feet, six inches. The Civil Service Commission may,
however, waive the aforesaid height requirements for the good of the service in
individual cases by duly adopted motion, upon the examination, recommendation
and opinion of the Director of Health or other physician skilled in
occupational medicine selected by the Civil Service Commission concluding that
the applicant has sufficient physical anatomy and capacity and could otherwise
discharge the duties in the department assigned without creating undue risks of
injury or damage to the applicant, coworkers and the persons to be served
respecting any applicant who:
      (1)   Has passed all initial entry level tests and meets all
qualifications other than a height requirement;
      (2)   Has scored sufficiently high on the initial written and physical
performance entrance examinations to be considered for final examination and
placement on an eligibility list; and
      (3)   Requests waiver of the height requirement and a medical examination
by the Director of Health or other physician skilled in occupational medicine
selected by the Civil Service Commission for the aforesaid purposes and submits
to such examination.
   (e)   (1)   Applicants to the Fire Department must have attained their
seventeenth birthday and must not have attained their thirty-fifth birthday as
of the final date for filing the application. Applicants shall not be eligible
to receive an original appointment to the Fire Department unless they have
attained their eighteenth birthday on or before the effective date of such
appointment.
      (2)   Applicants to the Police Department must have attained their
twentieth birthday and must not have attained their thirty-fifth birthday as of
the final date for filing the application. Applicants shall not be eligible to
receive an original appointment to the Police Department unless they have
attained their twenty-first birthday on or before the effective date of such
appointment.
      (3)   The young men and women cadets at Shaw High School who have
successfully completed the training taught by the city’s Fire Department, who
have not received a diploma but can produce a letter from a high school
certifying that he or she will have the required credits to graduate within the
current school year, will be qualified thereby to take the entry level
firefighters examination.
   (f)   All parts of the examination shall be conducted by the Civil Service
Commission or by such examiner or examiners as the Civil Service Commission may
appoint.
   (g)   Notice of competitive examinations shall be given not less than two
weeks prior to such examination by advertisement in at least two newspapers of
general circulation in the city.
   (h)   Applicants shall be graded on a scale of 100% for each part of the
examination and each part and subpart of the examination shall be so weighted
by the Civil Service Commission to comprise a total final score of 100 points
or 100%. No applicant shall be placed upon an eligible list, unless such
applicant:
      (1)   Meets all of the qualifications specified by ordinance;
      (2)   Completes and takes each and every part or portion of the
examination, including the physical examination, at the date, time and place
directed by the Civil Service Commission; and
      (3)   A.   Scores the minimum number of points on the examination or any
part thereof to be considered qualified and fit for the applied for position,
where the minimum number of points to be scored to be considered qualified on
an examination or portion thereof has been determined prior to testing by the
Civil Service Commission.
         B.   Additional credits shall be given to each applicant otherwise
qualified to be included upon an eligible list, if such applicant attains a
score above the average score attained by all applicants taking the examination
at the same time on all portions of the examination wherein the minimum number
of points to be scored to be considered qualified on such portions has not been
determined prior to testing by the Civil Service Commission as follows.
            1.   Veterans preference. Any soldier, sailor, marine, coast
guardsman, member of the auxiliary corps as established by Congress, member of
the Army or Navy Nurse Corps, or Red Cross Nurse who has served in the Army,
Navy or Hospital Service of the United States, and such other military service
as is designated by Congress, including World War I, World War II, or during
the period beginning May 1, 1949, and lasting so long as the armed forces of
the United States are engaged in armed conflict or occupation duty, or the
selective service or semiconscriptive acts are in effect in the United States,
whichever is the later date, who has been honorably discharged therefrom, or
transferred to the reserve with evidence of satisfactory service, and is a
resident of the state, may file with the Civil Service Commission a certificate
of service or honorable discharge and shall receive an additional credit of 10%
of such applicant’s total grade on all graded portions of the examination prior
to ranking the names on the eligible lists.
            2.   Resident’s preference. Any person including young men and
women cadets at Shaw High School, who shall prove continuous residency within
the city for at least one year next preceding the taking of the examination to
the satisfaction of the Civil Service Commissioners, shall receive an
additional credit of 10% of such applicant’s total grade on all graded portions
of the examination prior to ranking the names on the eligible list.
            3.   Cadet training. The young men and women cadets at Shaw High
School who have successfully completed the public safety training, shall
receive an additional credit of 20% of the applicant’s total grade on all
graded portions of the examination prior to the ranking of the names on the
eligible lists.
            4.   Experience preference. Any person who was appointed by the
Mayor to serve in the capacity of a city auxiliary police officer or part-time
firefighter and is currently in good standing, may file a proof of employment
with the Civil Service Commissioners and shall receive an additional credit of
5% of such applicant’s total grade on all graded portions of the examination
prior to ranking the names on the eligible list.
   (i)   An applicant who fails the medical examination will not be permitted
to apply for a position in the classified service within one year of such
medical examination unless he or she furnishes medical proof, satisfactory to
the Director of Health, that the conditions which caused his or her failure no
longer exists.
   (j)   No applicant shall be examined, certified or appointed to any office
in the classified service who is found to lack any of the established
requirements for the examination, who is physically or mentally unfit for the
performance of the duties of the position he or she seeks, who is addicted to
the use of intoxicating liquors or drugs to excess, who has been convicted of a
felony, who has been guilty of infamous or notoriously disgraceful conduct, who
has been dismissed from the military service or from any employment for any
reason which in the opinion of the Civil Service Commission is disqualifying,
who has made false statements of any material fact, or practiced or attempted
to practice any deception or fraud in his or her application or in his or her
examination, in establishing his or her eligibility or in securing his or her
appointment. Further, no applicant shall be examined, certified or appointed
any office in the civil service who advocates or willfully retains membership
in an organization which advocates overthrow of the government of the United
States or of the state or local government by force, violence or other unlawful
means.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969; Ord. 7358, passed 11-20-1979; Ord. 7485, passed
5-5-1981; Ord. 52-07, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 123.08  PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS IN CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (a)   To be eligible to take a promotional examination in the classified
service, an applicant must have at least one year of service in the rank
immediately below the rank for which he or she is an applicant, except that any
applicant who shall have attained the rank of lieutenant in the Department of
Police or the Department of Fire, shall be eligible to take the promotional
examination for Chief of Police or Chief of Fire, respectively.
   (b)   Promotion shall be based on competitive examinations, which may
include an oral component, and longevity or seniority and educational
achievement credit in the service by the candidates for promotion and the Civil
Service Commission shall determine prior to such examinations the proportions
of the total grade to be allowed for the competitive examination and for
longevity or service or educational attainment credits. Applicants shall
receive the following credit for seniority: 1% of the total grade attainable
for each of the first four years of service; and 0.6% of such total grade
attainable for each of the next ten years of service. In computing credit for
seniority, half of the credit set forth shall be given for a half year of
service. Applicants shall receive the following credit for educational
achievement: 1.5% of the total grade attainable for each of the first four
years of educational achievement; and 1% of such total grade attainable for
each of the next ten years of educational achievement. In computing credit for
educational achievement, half of the credit set forth shall be given for a half
year of service.
   (c)   No applicant shall be promoted in the classified service unless he or
she is certified as being physically qualified by the Director of Health after
medical examination. The Director of Health shall establish physical standards
for qualification and shall be the sole judge of whether an applicant meets
these standards. Failure to be certified as being physically qualified shall
cause an applicant’s name to be removed from a promotional eligible list.
   (d)   An application to take civil service examinations, both entry level
and promotional, shall be completed on forms furnished by the Civil Service
Commission. A filing fee of $10 shall accompany such application; provided,
however, the Civil Service Commission may waive the application fee for
applicants who by reason of indigency are unable to pay the fee.
(Ord. 5541, passed 3-12-1964; Ord. 7937, passed 6-21-1988; Ord. 150-03, passed
9-2-2003; Ord. 154-03, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 123.09  ELIGIBLE LISTS.
   (a)   The Civil Service Commission shall, when required by law or at any
time when in its judgment the interests of the public service shall require,
conduct an examination to establish an eligible list. When the Civil Service
Commission holds an examination while there is an existing eligible list for
such position or rank, any person on the existing list shall be placed on the
new list according to his or her final grade. However, any person on such
existing list may take such new examination, but by doing so shall thereby be
bound by the final grade of such new examination in determining his or her
position on the new eligible list.
   (b)   The Civil Service Commission shall, after the completion of an
examination, prepare a list of persons ranked in the order of their final
grades who have passed and who are eligible for appointment or promotion and
shall keep such list open to public inspection.
   (c)   When an applicant has been appointed or promoted, his or her name
shall be removed from all eligible lists.
   (d)   Eligible lists for original appointment shall be effective for a
period of one year from the examination date, except that the Civil Service
Commission may extend the effective period of an eligible list for original
appointment for a period not to exceed two years after the examination date.
Eligible lists for promotion shall be effective for two years after the
examination date.
   (e)   It shall be the duty of each person on an eligible list to file with
the Civil Service Commission written notice of any change of address and
failure to do so may be cause for the removal of his or her name from the
eligible list.
   (f)   If, at any time, the Civil Service Commission has reason to believe
that any person on any eligible list has in any manner become disqualified for
the position for which he or she is listed as eligible, it shall give to such
person notice and an opportunity to be heard in his or her own behalf, and if
he or she shall fail to appear or on such hearing fail to satisfy the Civil
Service Commission that he or she is duly qualified, his or her name shall be
removed from such eligible list.
   (g)   (1)   Upon notice from the Mayor that he or she proposes to fill a
position in the classified civil service by promotion, the Civil Service
Commission shall certify to the Mayor the six persons with the highest grades
on the appropriate promotion eligible list, provided such persons have attained
or will attain their twenty-first birthday on or before the date of proposed
appointment.
      (2)   Upon notice from the Mayor that he or she proposes to fill a
position in the classified service by original appointment, the Civil Service
Commission shall certify to the Mayor the appropriate eligible list of those
persons who attained a passing score on the civil service examination.
   (h)   (1)   If there are fewer than six names upon a promotion eligible list
for appointment, these names shall be certified, and the Mayor may appoint from
this list or he or she may demand an eligible list of six names.
      (2)   If there are fewer than ten names upon an eligible list for
original appointment, these names shall be certified and the Mayor may appoint
from this list or he or she may demand an eligible list of ten names.
   (i)   The person selected for appointment shall be duly notified by the
Mayor, and if the person so selected shall fail to respond within four days to
notice of appointment sent by registered mail to his or her post office address
as registered with the Civil Service Commission, he or she may be considered as
declining the appointment and his or her name may be stricken from the eligible
list. If however, it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the Civil
Service Commission within 30 days after giving such notice that the person was
unavoidably and without fault on his or her part prevented from accepting such
appointment, his or her name may be restored to its proper position on the
eligible list.
   (j)   Any person duly certified to the Mayor who shall decline appointment
or promotion may be dropped from the eligible list, but his or her name may be
restored for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Civil Service
Commission.
   (k)   (Repealed by Ord. 12-11, passed 2-15-2011)
   (l)   Any person whose name is ready for certification more than six months
after the date of the establishment of the eligible list shall furnish a
written record of his or her employment during such period and shall furnish
medical proof, satisfactory to the Director of Health, that he or she is
physically qualified for the position for which he or she is an applicant.
(Ord. 5541, passed 3-12-1964; Ord. 28-93, passed 3-30-1993; Ord. 17-96, passed
3-19-1996; Ord. 156-03, passed 9-2-2003; Ord. 165-03, passed 9-2-2003; Ord.
108-10, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. 11-11, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 123.10  LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR TEMPORARY MILITARY TRAINING OR ACTIVE DUTY.
   (a)   All employees who are members of the Ohio National Guard, the Ohio
State Guard, the Ohio Naval Militia or other reserve components of the Armed
Forces of the United States shall be entitled to leave of absence from their
respective duties for such time as they are in such military services on field
training or active duty for periods not exceeding 31 days in any calendar year.
   (b)   If a city employee’s military pay or compensation during such period
of leave of absence is less than his or her city pay would have been for such
period, he or she shall be paid by the city the difference in money between the
city pay and his or her military pay for such period. In determining such
employee’s military pay for the purposes of this section, allowances for
travel, food or housing shall not be considered, but any other pay or allowance
of any nature, including longevity pay, shall be considered.
   (c)   Such leave of absence shall not affect the person’s right to vacation
leave, sick leave bonuses or other normal benefits of his or her employment.
   (d)   Each respective department, whether the Police Department, Fire
Department or otherwise, is hereby authorized to adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations establishing procedures to implement and to systematize the pay or
compensation process and employee rights granted herein, provided, however,
that such rules and regulations are adopted or promulgated subject to review
and approval of the Mayor; and further provided that such rules and regulations
are not inconsistent with this section.
(Ord. 7640, passed 5-31-1983)
CHAPTER 127:  EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
Section
127.01   Travel, lodging and meal allowances
127.02   Travel expenses of city employees
127.03   Expenses of potential employees
127.04   Employee’s special work clothing; purchase, rental and cleaning
127.05   Working hours and overtime for city employees in general
127.06   Fair labor standards act regulations
127.07   Payment of unused sick leave for non-bargaining unit employees
127.08   City motor vehicles; personal use prohibited; parking restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Compensation and bonds, see CHTR. §
110
   Payroll deductions, see Ohio R.C. 9.41 et seq.
   Travel expenses, see Ohio R.C. 733.79
§ 127.01  TRAVEL, LODGING AND MEAL ALLOWANCES.
   (a)   Per diem meal and local ground travel and communications allowances.
      (1)   Officials and employees of the city shall be allowed the following
maximum per diem expenses, when traveling away from the city and outside the
county on authorized official city business, which expenses shall be reimbursed
without the necessity of providing a receipt:
         A.   Local ground travel and communications expenses: $8.50;
         B.   Breakfast: $10;
         C.   Lunch: $20; and
         D.   Dinner: $30.
      (2)   Provided further, however, that there shall be no per diem
reimbursement for meals provided as part of the fee for registration at a
seminar or convention. No reimbursement in excess of these amounts shall be
allowed under any circumstances.
   (b)   Use of personal automobile: mileage allowance. Unless otherwise
provided pursuant to provisions of a collective bargaining agreement between
the city and a bargaining unit of the city representing the employee, officials
and employees of the city shall be allowed and paid the current IRS standard
business rate per mile driven in their own automobiles on authorized official
city business, excepting all travel compensated for and paid by way of blanket
annual allowance authorized in the salary ordinance. Reimbursement for parking,
tolls and other charges incidental to such automobile travel shall be allowed
upon tender of vouchers. Payment for mileage shall only be made where the
employee or official maintains a contemporaneous mileage log, with mileage
logged therein turned in to the Director of Finance for payment no less than
quarterly.
   (c)   Registration fees and public transportation. All registration fees and
public transportation other than local ground travel utilized by city officials
or employees on authorized official city business shall be requisitioned and
approved in advance and then booked and paid directly by the city or, in
emergency situations only, reimbursed upon production of vouchers at the rates
approved by the appropriate department head, the Mayor and the Finance
Director. Travel shall be by the means most economical for the city considering
time and other costs of travel.
   (d)   Hotels and lodgings. Expense incurred for reasonable and necessary
hotel or public lodgings when traveling away from the city on authorized
official city business shall be reimbursed in the amount expended therefor upon
tender of appropriate vouchers.
   (e)   Authorized official city business. The term AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL CITY
BUSINESS includes only activities that are for the benefit of the city and
authorized by the appropriate department head and the Mayor. The “appropriate
department head” of Council shall be the President or a majority of Council
acting at a public meeting; otherwise, it is the director of the department of
which the traveling officer or employee is a member; provided further, that
officials of the city shall also be authorized the mileage allowance in
division (b) above for the mileage incurred while conducting Council business
within the city limits in the carrying out of their duties. The mileage shall
be recorded on forms prescribed by the appropriate department head and shall be
approved by the appropriate department head as provided herein prior to
submission for payment to the Department of Finance.
   (f)   Nonreimbursible items; reimbursement procedure. Reimbursement shall
only be for expenses authorized and incurred for the benefit of the city and
after tender of appropriate vouchers, which tender shall not be waived except
as authorized in this section. No reimbursement shall be allowed for tips or
gratuities, alcoholic beverages, personal telephone calls, expenses for guest
visiting or for entertainment. No reimbursement shall be allowed for any
expense incurred by reason of arrival earlier than one-half day before the
authorized official city business is commenced or holding over later than one-
half day after such business is completed. The procedure for payment of
allowable claims shall be as provided in this section and in §
64 of the Charter.
(Ord. 7144, passed 4-11-1978; Ord. 7363, passed 12-18-1979; Ord. 114-98, passed
11-4-1998; Ord. 46-08, passed 8-19-2008)
§ 127.02  TRAVEL EXPENSES OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   The elected officials in each branch of government are hereby
authorized to travel on official city business. The presiding official (Council
President, Mayor and Judge) in each branch of government has the authority to
approve travel on official city business for the members and/or employees of
their respective branch of government.
   (b)   Upon authorizing such travel, the presiding official shall issue a
preliminary expense report, which sets forth the person authorized to travel
and the destination, purpose, date and estimated expense of such travel. The
presiding official or the person so authorized to travel shall, within 72 hours
after his or her return, file with the Director of Finance his or her
certificate as to the actual expenses of such travel, itemized to such extent
and provide such receipts as required by §
127.01 to the Director of Finance. Such certificate shall be reconciled and
approved by the Director of Finance and, upon such approval, the Director of
Finance shall reimburse the authorized person for the actual expenses of such
travel within 30 days of receiving the authorized person’s expense report.
(Ord. 37-08, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 127.03  EXPENSES OF POTENTIAL EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, where he or she deems it to be in the best
interest of the city, to request certain out-of-town applicants to travel at
the expense of the city in order to present themselves for interview. In cases
where the Mayor has requested in writing the appearance of an out-of-town
applicant, the Director of Finance is authorized to reimburse such applicant,
upon the presentation of such receipts as the Director of Finance may require,
for the actual travel and incidental expenses incurred.
(Ord. 4800, passed 5-5-1954)
§ 127.04  EMPLOYEE’S SPECIAL WORK CLOTHING; PURCHASE, RENTAL AND CLEANING.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to purchase or rent special work
clothing for employees in all cases where, in his or her judgment, working
conditions are such as to require such clothing for the reasonable protection
or identification of the employee.
   (b)   Such clothing may include rain hats, rain coats, coveralls, boots,
special caps, special belts and such other items of clothing as the Mayor may
deem necessary. Purchased clothing shall remain the property of the city and
the Mayor is authorized to incur expense for cleaning and laundering as may be
deemed necessary.
(Ord. 4615, passed 1-15-1952)
§ 127.05  WORKING HOURS AND OVERTIME FOR CITY EMPLOYEES IN GENERAL.
   Except for the regular members of the Police and Fire Department and as
exempted or otherwise provided by law, the following provisions apply to all
employees of the city.
   (a)   The normal work day is eight hours commencing at 8:00 a.m. and ending
at 5:00 p.m. with one hour to be taken for lunch, Monday through Friday of each
week, inclusive.
   (b)   All such employees shall be paid for overtime at the wage rate of one
and one-half times the employees’ regular wage rate for hours worked in excess
of 40 hours per week subject to the exemptions provided by federal statutes 29
U.S.C. §§ 207 and 213 as amended and Ohio R.C. 4111.01; provided further,
however, that for purposes of computing hours worked during a work week
including a paid legal holiday, employees shall be credited a normal work day
of eight hours as hours worked with respect to the paid legal holiday.
   (c)   The Mayor may change the work days and the starting and finishing time
of any employee when such change will serve to improve the public service.
   (d)   Any such overtime compensation that has been accrued by any employee
may be deferred and due and payable at the sole discretion of the Director of
Finance, if necessary funding is available or at the termination of such
employee.
   (e)   The following salaried employees shall not be paid overtime at any
wage rate for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
Assistant Director of Finance
City Engineer
Clerk of Court, city’s Municipal Court
Deputy Tax Administrator
Director, Department of Community Development
Director, Helen S. Brown Center
Director, Housing Department or Chief Housing Inspector
Director, Human Resources
Director, Lands and Buildings
Director of Finance
Director of Law
Director of Purchasing Department
Director, Parks and Recreation
Director, Probation Department or Chief Probation Officer
Director, Service Department
Director, Water Department or Utilities Administrator
Executive Assistant to the Mayor
Fire Chief
Housing Commissioner
Manager, EDP Resources
Mayor
Police Chief
 
   (f)   (1)   A.   All non-bargaining unit hourly employees shall be eligible
to receive compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay at the rate of one
hour for each overtime hour worked. The approving signature of the supervisor
shall evidence entitlement to compensatory time and/or department head
responsible for signing the employee’s time card before it is submitted to be
paid. Each eligible employee may accumulate a maximum of 160 hours of unused
compensatory time; provided, however, that all accumulated compensatory time
must be used prior to the end of the year in which it is earned or will be
forfeited, if not approved for cash conversion pursuant to division (f)(2)
below.
         B.   After a non-exempt employee has accrued this maximum compensatory
time bank, subsequently accumulated compensatory time may be used only as
leave, for vacation, compensatory time leave, bereavement leave, and holidays,
in addition to regularly accumulated sick leave, or personal leave.
      (2)   If at the end of each calendar year (December 31) a non-exempt
employee has unused compensatory time, he or she shall be eligible to convert
up to 50 hours of that compensatory time to cash, if, in the sole discretion of
the Director of Finance, necessary funding is available. The calculation for
converting compensatory time to cash shall be the employee’s hourly rate of pay
at the time the request is made, multiplied by number of hours the employee
desires to convert. It shall be the responsibility of the employee seeking to
convert compensatory time to cash to make a request in writing to the
Department of Finance specifying the number of hours he or she wishes to
convert to cash, prior to the end of the first pay period in the new calendar
year. The cash conversion shall be forwarded to the employee on the scheduled
pay date.
      (3)   An employee with accumulated compensatory time may request leave,
which will be charged against such accumulated compensatory time, for vacation,
time off, bereavement leave, or holidays and shall be granted such leave so
long as the granting of said leave does not unduly disrupt city operations as
determined by the non-exempt employee’s supervisor, department head or the
Mayor.
      (4)   All non-exempt employees shall, upon retirement, be paid for all
accumulated compensatory time up to 160 hours at an hourly rate equal to the
employee’s final regular hourly rate. In the event of an employee’s death, such
compensation shall be paid to the employee’s estate.
      (5)   Exempt employees are not entitled to overtime pay or formal
compensatory time. However, the policy of the city shall be to allow exempt
personnel to take time off from their duties during normal business hours, when
they have devoted time in excess of the normally expected time commitment
associated with the nature of their positions, provided that they receive the
approval of the Mayor to take such time off from his or her duties.
(Ord. 6596, passed 5-14-1974; Ord. 6908, passed 9-21-1976; Ord. 111-93, passed
10-19-1993; Ord. 79-94, passed 7-19-1994; Ord. 123-01, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 127.06  FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the exemptions provided in federal statutes 29 U.S.C. §§ 207 and
213, Ohio R.C. Chapter 4111, and as otherwise provided by law with relation to
the Department of Public Safety, Police and Fire Departments, the Mayor and the
Chiefs of Fire and Police are hereby authorized to promulgate such reasonable
rules and regulations relative to the work period, working hours, overtime,
overtime payments, and starting and finishing time as they shall deem necessary
and reasonable to serve to improve the public service and as required by law.
(Ord. 6678, passed 12-26-1974)
§ 127.07  PAYMENT OF UNUSED SICK LEAVE FOR NON-BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES.
   For all non-bargaining unit employees, upon their retirement to the (public
employees retirement system or other disability or retirement) of a full-time
employee, such employee shall be entitled to receive a cash payment equal to
his or her hourly rate of the accumulated, unused sick leave hours up to a
maximum of 240 hours. Under no circumstances shall the city pay accrued sick
leave to any employee who has otherwise resigned or is removed from employment.
(Ord. 73-93, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 127.08  CITY MOTOR VEHICLES; PERSONAL USE PROHIBITED; PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No employee or agent of the city shall:
      (1)   Operate any city vehicles for personal use; or
      (2)   While off duty keep any city vehicle at a personal residence or any
place other than on city property designated for the parking of such vehicle
when that vehicle is not being used to conduct city business.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, only the Mayor, Fire Chief, Police Chief
and whoever City Council by legislative action may designate from time to time,
shall be considered to be continuously on duty and required to keep city
vehicles at their personal residence.
   (c)   City Council may, by legislative action from time to time, designate
where vehicles are to be kept while not in use.
   (d)   City vehicles while not in use shall be kept only at the following
city facilities:
      (1)   City Hall parking lot; or
      (2)   Service Department parking lot.
(Res. 64-07, passed 9-18-2007)
CHAPTER 129:  POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
129.01   Duties of Police Department
129.02   Duties of Fire Department
129.03   Special police duty for public and private organizations
129.04   Auxiliary police force
129.05   (Reserved)
129.06   Private police officer commissions
129.07   Private police officers refresher course
129.08   Rules of conduct for private police officers
129.09   Termination of private police officer commission
129.10   Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers
129.11   Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers; qualifications; term
129.12   Termination of Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers
129.13   User fee for deployment of Fire Department equipment and personnel to
motor vehicle accident
Cross-reference:
   Civil service, see
Ch. 123
   Departmental organization, see §
121.07
   Residency requirements, see §
122.01
§ 129.01  DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall preserve the peace, protect persons and property
and enforce all ordinances of Council and all criminal laws of the state and
the United States and shall perform such other duties as are designated from
time to time by the Police Chief or the Mayor.
(Ord. 3870, passed 1-11-1944)
§ 129.02  DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   As prescribed by general law, the Fire Department shall protect the lives
and property of the people in case of fire, and the members thereof shall
perform such other duties in addition to those hereinafter specifically set
forth as the Fire Chief or the Mayor may order. In addition to the duties
hereinbefore provided for, firefighters shall, upon the order of the Fire Chief
or the Mayor, perform such duties as are ordered during tornadoes, windstorms,
floods or other emergencies affecting the lives and property of the people and,
as ordered shall perform duties at school crossings, shall remove snow and ice
from the sidewalks on city property, shall mow and take care of lawns, trim and
care for shrubbery and perform other yard work as may be directed around city
property, and shall make repairs to city buildings and equipment as directed.
Such duties are hereby declared not to be inconsistent with their regular
service.
(Ord. 3870, passed 1-11-1944)
§ 129.03  SPECIAL POLICE DUTY FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into written agreements with
public or private organizations to assign police officers to special police
duty with such organizations where, in the opinion of the Mayor and the Police
Chief, such duty serves the purpose of public safety, traffic control and
public welfare.
   (b)   Such written agreements shall be approved by the Mayor and Director of
Law and shall contain among others, the following provisions:
      (1)   Such police officer shall be specifically assigned to duty by and
under the control of the Police Chief, and shall at all times be considered as
being on official police duty;
      (2)   Such police officer may or may not be in full uniform depending
upon the nature of the assignment;
      (3)   Such police officer shall be paid by the public and private
organization at such rate as may be jointly agreed in writing as may be
submitted by the organization and the police officer for approval by the city;
      (4)   Such duties shall be restricted to the limits of the city;
      (5)   The city will agree to furnish manpower only to the extent of its
availability; and
      (6)   Such agreement shall be subject to cancellation by either party
within 30 days.
(Ord. 5628, passed 4-20-1965; Ord. 125-92, passed 12-15-1992)
§ 129.04  AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (a)   Creation and appointment. There is hereby created within the
Department of Public Safety an auxiliary police force, the members of which
shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (b)   Term of service. An auxiliary police officer shall serve as long as
the Mayor may direct, or until a resignation submitted by such police officer
shall be accepted by the Mayor.
   (c)   Age and qualifications. The members of the auxiliary police force
shall not be under 21 years of age at the time of their appointment. They shall
have such additional qualifications as are prescribed in the rules and
regulations for the auxiliary police force.
   (d)   Control and assignment. The Police Chief shall be the commanding
officer of the auxiliary police force and shall have control of the assignment,
training, stationing and direction of the work of such force. The auxiliary
police force shall perform only such police duties as are assigned by the
Police Chief, and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform or portion of
uniform. When under assignment by the Police Chief and in the prescribed
uniform, the auxiliary police shall have all police powers. They shall obey the
chain of command of the Police Department and shall take orders from all
regularly appointed members thereof.
   (e)   Rules and regulations. The Police Chief shall, with the approval of
the Mayor, prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct and control of the
auxiliary police force.
   (f)   Performance of services. All services performed by auxiliary police
officers shall be performed on a voluntary basis and within the limits of the
city, provided, however, that services performed by the auxiliary police
officers while performing as police officers to testify at Court proceedings
based upon their official duties as such police officers for the benefit of the
city, wherein such officers are required to lose time from their full-time
employment, they shall be reimbursed at the third-grade police officer’s hourly
rate by the city, not as an employee, but as reimbursement for wages lost,
subject at all times to the express approval of the Chief of Police.
   (g)   Cash uniform allowance. Each auxiliary police officer/special police
officer and animal warden, shall be granted a cash uniform allowance of $150
per year; and each police dispatcher shall also be granted a cash uniform
allowance of $100 per year, all payable on December 1 of each year.
      (1)   Auxiliary police officers shall be paid the annual amount as
provided in this division (g), provided that the individual has been a member
of the auxiliary police force during the entire calendar year.
      (2)   The special police officers, police dispatchers and animal wardens
shall be paid the annual amounts as provided in this division (g), provided
that the individual has been a special police officer, police dispatcher or an
animal warden for a period of six months out of the year.
      (3)   No one shall be entitled to more than one clothing allowance for
any year irrespective of the number of differing job classifications held
during the year.
   (h)   Worker’s compensation. The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into a
contract with the Ohio Industrial Commission pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4123.03 for
the purpose of providing coverage for members of the auxiliary police force
under the worker’s compensation law of the state.
(Ord. 5813, passed 5-17-1967; Ord. 7550, passed 4-20-1982; Ord. 7691, passed
12-6-1983)
§ 129.05  (RESERVED FOR FUTURE LEGISLATION)
§ 129.06  PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER COMMISSIONS.
   Upon application, the Mayor as ex-officio Director of Public Safety is
hereby authorized to commission persons for one year renewable terms as private
police officers, who shall not be in the classified service or list of the
Police Department, and who shall have full police powers and be considered law
enforcement officers for enforcement of the Ohio Criminal Code and the codified
ordinances of the city, but only within the restricted limits of the territory
set forth in their private police commission cards and only during the work
hours assigned by their employers, upon determination that the following
conditions have been satisfied.
   (a)   The applicant meets all of the qualifications required for issuance of
a handgun owner’s identification card, and pays the annual fee provided
therein.
   (b)   A current agreement between the city and the applicant’s employer
indemnifying the city for wrongful acts of the applicant upon commissioning
together with any certificates of insurance required thereby shall be on file
with the Director of Finance; such agreement shall be in terms approved by the
Director of Law and shall include provisions requiring the employer to secure
and maintain professional liability insurance on the acts of the applicant
under the commission with the employer and city as named insureds, except in
instances where the assets of the employer and terms of the indemnification
agreement are sufficient in the opinion of the Director of Law to preclude the
necessity of this requirement.
   (c)   The applicant is employed and has written acknowledgment of employment
and authorization to apply for a private police commission as authorized by
this section from the applicant’s employer with respect to premises owned or
leased by the employer located within the territorial limits of the city.
   (d)   The applicant shall satisfy one of the following requirements:
      (1)   Provide certification to establish successful completion of the
approved training program designed by the state’s Peace Officers Training
Council for special police officers, security guards or persons otherwise
privately employed in a police capacity pursuant to Ohio R.C. 109.78;
      (2)   Provide proof of past employment as a full-time police officer in
the classified service of the Ohio State Highway Patrol or a state municipal
police department for at least three years, assuming satisfactory completion of
the basic police course required by the state’s Peace Officers Training
Council, as a part of such employment or completion of 20 years of active duty
as a peace officer; or
      (3)   The applicant is a full-time police officer of the city with
respect to approved off-duty employment.
   (e)   Upon order of the Mayor or Chief of Police, appointments hereunder may
be conditioned upon satisfactory completion within one year of any refresher
course determined necessary in the sole opinion of the Mayor or Chief of Police
subject, however, to the presumption that successful completion of the
refresher course established by §
129.07 within two years of application shall be prima facie evidence of
adequate training.
(Ord. 7133, passed 3-21-1978; Ord. 7157, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 129.07  PRIVATE POLICE OFFICERS REFRESHER COURSE.
   (a)   The private police officers refresher course shall be administered by
an Instructor certified by the state’s Peace Officers Training Council to
administer the 120 hour course for special police officers, security guards or
persons otherwise privately employed in a police capacity pursuant to Ohio R.C.
109.78 and shall have the following content.
Criminal law and procedures        2 hours
Handling of juveniles              2 hours
Examination                        2 hours
Firearms training                  6 hours
   Range qualification          2 hours
   Classroom instruction
Laws of arrest                     2 hours
Patrol of private property         2 hours
Search and seizure                 2 hours
Techniques and mechanics of arrest 2 hours
Total:                             22 hours
 
   (b)   The term SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION  as applied to the aforesaid refresher
course shall have the same meaning, to the fullest extent applicable, as
prescribed by the rules of the state’s Peace Officers Training Council with
respect to the aforesaid 120 hour course prescribed pursuant to Ohio R.C.
109.78.
(Ord. 7133, passed 3-21-1978)
§ 129.08  RULES OF CONDUCT FOR PRIVATE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   All private police officers shall be under the control and direction
of the Chief of Police and shall be subject to his or her orders and to all
such rules as the Director of Public Safety may from time to time prescribe.
   (b)   Private police officers shall wear only the type of badge and uniform
which has been approved by the Director of Public Safety.
   (c)   A private police officer shall, when on duty, carry on his or her
person the private police officer commission card issued to him or her by the
Mayor, which card shall be authority for wearing the approved private police
officer badge and uniform.
   (d)   A private police officer may carry firearms and may, when approved by
the Director of Public Safety, carry a concealed weapon within the limits of
the territory set forth on his or her private police officers commission card
and while traveling to and from that territory from his or her place of
residence. No approval to carry a concealed weapon shall appear on any private
police officer commission card.
   (e)   A private police officer shall upon request of any regular member of
the Police Department, surrender his or her commission card and badge to such
member, who will forward the same to the office of the Director of Public
Safety with a report of the reasons for such action.
   (f)   All duly and regularly appointed private police officers shall possess
the authority and privileges of private police officers. They will exercise
this authority and privileges only within the limits of the territory as set
forth on their private police officer commission card or when their services
elsewhere are requested by a regular police officer of the city.
   (g)   All private police officers are responsible for the full enforcement
of all state and federal laws and the ordinances of the city. This
responsibility is restricted to the limits of their territory.
   (h)   All private police officers are at all times subject, as are all other
citizens, to all state and federal laws and all ordinances of the city.
   (i)   Private police officers must at all times go to the aid of a regular
member of the Police Department, when such member is in trouble and stress, and
the need for aid is readily seen.
   (j)   The private police officer authority and the associated private police
officer badge are to be used only by the individual to whom issued and are not
transferable at any time.
   (k)   Private police officers will volunteer to the office of the Chief of
Police all information they may have or receive relative to any offense or
offenders of the law.
   (l)   (1)   All private police officers shall make complete application for
their new commission card within 30 days prior to the expiration date of their
current commission card. If the private police officer commission card is not
renewed prior to the expiration date, all the authority the person possessed by
virtue of the private police commission card terminates.
      (2)   In all cases of resignation or dismissal from service which is
provided an employer by virtue of the private police officer commission card,
the commission card shall be returned to the office of the Director of Public
Safety with such date and reason for either resignation or dismissal furnished
therewith.
   (m)   All private police officers who have received employment by virtue of
having first been commissioned as a private police officer are expected to
fulfill their obligations to their employer in a loyal and faithful manner at
all times to the best of their knowledge and ability, unless in conflict with
these rules and regulations, and such orders as may be given by regular members
of the Police Department.
   (n)   No private police officer under any circumstances will receive from
the city any money or fees or salary for services of any nature rendered, as a
result of the issuance of private police officer powers, or for the exercise of
private police officer powers in his or her duties or obligations as a private
police officer.
   (o)   If for any unforeseen reason a private police officer is notified to
appear at the office of the Director of Public Safety or the Chief of Police,
he or she shall do so immediately or at time designated to appear.
   (p)   No private police officer at any time shall gossip about the affairs
of the Police Department or of his or her employer, nor shall he or she at any
time divulge to anyone not concerned, any information which he or she may have
and may be of value and to the interest of the Police Department.
   (q)   No private police officer shall, through vigorous solicitation, force
his or her services upon any business owner who is unwilling to have such
service performed for him or her, nor shall he or she use his or her commission
card and private police powers for any other reason than that for which they
are intended to be used.
(Ord. 7133, passed 3-21-1978)
§ 129.09  TERMINATION OF PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER COMMISSIONS.
   (a)   Whenever the conditions of §
129.06 cease to be satisfied with respect to a private police commission, such
commission shall be terminated without notice.
   (b)   The commission of any private police officer may be revoked without
notice at any time by the Director of Public Safety or the Chief of Police and
the commission card therefor canceled when just complaint is filed against him
or her as verified by the Director of Public Safety and the person or persons
whose commissions are so revoked for any violations of the rules and
regulations of private police officer or the Department of Public Safety shall
not be eligible for reappointment, until such time as the Director of Public
Safety may decide to reappoint him or her at his or her own discretion.
   (c)   (1)   The Chief of Police or any officer of the Police Department may
file written charges against any private police officer for alleged violations
of these rules or any part thereof. The Director of Public Safety may, at his
or her pleasure, after receipt of such charges, conduct a hearing into the
facts basic to such charges, and may either discipline the private police or
revoke and cancel all powers and privileges of his or her private police
officer commission, if in his or her judgment the results of his or her inquiry
may warrant such action.
      (2)   In all cases the action and decision of the Director of Public
Safety shall be final.
   (d)   In case of commission revocation without prior notice, the person
affected may appeal and may request a hearing from the Director of Public
Safety in writing within ten days of notice of revocation. Such person shall,
however, surrender his or her card and badge and cease functioning as a private
police officer pending hearing and until such commission is reinstated, if at
all. The decision of the Director of Public Safety in such matter shall be
final.
(Ord. 7133, passed 3-21-1978)
§ 129.10  BEAT PATROL COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.
   Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers shall be appointed by the Mayor in the
unclassified service of the Police Department and shall have full police powers
and be considered law enforcement officers for enforcement of the state’s
Criminal Code and the codified ordinances of the city, but only within the
restricted limits of their assignments set forth in their Beat Patrol
Commissioned Officers assignment cards and subject to the following provisions.
   (a)   Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers shall at all times have all of the
qualifications specified for the private police in §§
129.06,
129.07 and
129.08 of the codified ordinances of the city as a condition of initial
appointment and continued employment.
   (b)   Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers shall have full police powers and be
considered law enforcement officers, only upon assignment by the Chief of
Police, limited to one or more of the following duties of the codified
ordinances throughout the city: traffic enforcement, serving of outstanding
warrants, patrol assigned areas and perform special assignments in high crime
areas, enforcement of any statutes or ordinances as may become necessary in
performing the duties as court officer for the city’s Board of Education;
enforcement throughout the city of chapters
303,
305,
307,
351 and
355 of the codified ordinances of the city and such other administrative duties
as may be assigned by the Chief of Police.
   (c)   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the Beat Patrol
Commissioned Officers and shall have control of the assignment, training,
stationing and directions of the work of such unit. Members of the unit shall
perform only such police duties as may be assigned by the Chief of Police in
the above-stated categories and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform.
Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers shall be subject to all ordinances and rules
and regulations pertaining to private police to the extent applicable and not
in conflict with the ordinances and departmental rules promulgated specially
for the regulation of Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers.
   (d)   Those members of the Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers unit, if
otherwise eligible under statute, shall become members of the public employees
retirement system and shall enjoy all of the benefits provided by the city for
employees in the unclassified civil service. The salary to be paid to Beat
Patrol Commissioned Officers shall be at an hourly wage rate of a third-grade
patrol officer.
(Ord. 72-98, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 129.11  BEAT PATROL COMMISSIONED OFFICERS; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (a)   Upon application, the Mayor or Deputy Safety Director is hereby
authorized to commission persons for intervals not to exceed six months
renewable terms as a Commissioned Officer in the Beat Patrol Commissioned
Police Department.
   (b)   Such appointee or appointees shall not be in the classified service or
list of the Police Department. Such appointee or appointees shall have full
police powers and be considered law enforcement officers for enforcement of the
state’s Criminal Code and the codified ordinances of the city as defined in §
129.10(b) and only during the work hours assigned by their employers, upon
determination that the following conditions have been satisfied.
      (1)   Upon order of the Mayor or Chief of Police, appointments hereunder
may be conditioned upon satisfactory completion within one year of any
refresher course determined necessary in the sole opinion of the Mayor or Chief
of Police subject, however, to the presumption that successful completion of
the refresher course established by §
129.07 within two years of application shall be prima facie evidence of
adequate training.
      (2)   The said Beat Patrol Commissioned Officers shall be issued or
authorized such weapons, equipment and uniforms as the Chief of Police shall
determine and they shall only utilize such weapons, equipment and uniforms as
may be issued or authorized during the terms of their commission(s).
(Ord. 72-98, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 129.12  TERMINATION OF BEAT PATROL COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.
   (a)   Whenever the conditions of §§
129.10,
129.11 or
129.12 cease to be satisfied with respect to a Beat Patrol Commissioned
Officer, such commission shall be terminated without notice.
   (b)   The commission of any Beat Patrol Commissioned Officer may be revoked
without notice at any time by the Mayor, Director of Public Safety, Deputy
Safety Director or the Chief of Police and the commission card therefor
canceled when just complaint is filed against him or her as verified by the
Director of Public Safety. The person or persons whose commissions are so
revoked for any violations of the rules and regulations of private police
officer or the Department of Public Safety shall not be eligible for
reappointment, until such time as the Mayor or Deputy Safety Director may
decide to reappoint him or her at his or her own discretion.
   (c)   In the case of commission revocation without prior notice, the person
affected may appeal and may request a hearing with the Deputy Safety Director
in writing within ten days of notice of revocation. Such person shall, however,
surrender his or her card and badge and cease functioning as a private police
officer pending hearing and until such commission is reinstated, if at all. The
decision of the Deputy Safety Director in such matter shall be final.
(Ord. 72-98, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 129.13  USER FEE FOR DEPLOYMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL TO
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT.
   (a)   The city’s Fire Department shall charge a user fee for the deployment
of Fire Department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of
a motor vehicle accident. The rate of the user fee shall be the costs incurred,
which include, but are not limited to, any services, personnel, supplies and
equipment, and may fluctuate based on the services provided and as set out in
exhibit “A” attached to original Ordinance 64-04.
   (b)   The user fee shall be charged to the motor vehicle insurance carrier,
insuring the vehicles or individuals receiving the provided services.
   (c)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to contract with a company
specializing in the billing of Fire Department services for motor vehicle
accidents, for collection of such user fees as a result of Fire Department
services being provided.
   (d)   All amounts collected as a result of this section shall be placed into
a Public Safety, Equipment and Facilities Fund, which hereby is authorized and
directed to be established by the Director of Finance to be used exclusively
for apparatus, equipment and facilities for the Fire Department.
(Ord. 64-04, passed 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 131:  PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
131.01  Establishment and powers
131.02  Hearing fee
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see
Ch. 1107
   Citizens Advisory Committee, see
Ch. 133
   Districting or zoning, see CHTR. §
85-B
   Planning Commission, see CHTR. §
85-A
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 103
§ 131.01  ESTABLISHMENT AND POWERS.
   A city’s Planning Commission is hereby established and appointed consisting
of such members and having those powers and duties as are provided in §
85-A of the City Charter.
§ 131.02  HEARING FEE.
   Each application for hearing before the city’s Planning Commission shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $50. Each request shall require a
separate application.
(Ord. 48-91, passed 5-21-1991)   
CHAPTER 133:  CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Section
133.01   Establishment, composition, terms and bylaws
133.02   Advisory capacity
133.03   Suggestions subject to approval
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see CHTR. §
85-B;
Ch. 1107
   Planning Commission, see CHTR. §
85-A
§ 133.01  ESTABLISHMENT, COMPOSITION, TERMS AND BYLAWS.
   (a)   Council hereby establishes an advisory group to be known as the city’s
Citizens Advisory Committee. Such Committee shall consist of not more than 50
persons appointed by Council and of the following ex-officio members who shall
have the same rights and obligations as all other members of such Committee:
the Mayor, the President of Council, the Superintendent of the city schools,
and the President of the city’s Board of Education. The terms of the appointed
members shall be for two years commencing on July 1, and ending on June 30,
except that of those appointed on February 1, 1973, half shall be appointed for
one-year terms and half shall be appointed for two-year terms. Council may also
make temporary appointments for lesser terms and fill vacancies of full term
members by appointment. The Committee shall elect such officers as it deems
necessary and shall establish its own attendance requirements, bylaws, rules
and regulations.
   (b)   The terms of present members about to expire on January 31 of this or
any other year are hereby extended to June 30 of that year in which their term
is set to expire.
(Ord. 6684, passed 1-21-1975)
§ 133.02  ADVISORY CAPACITY.
   The city’s Citizens Advisory Committee shall be advisory to Council, the
city’s Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals. It is suggested that
the Committee concern itself with such broad areas as health and social
services, municipal services, physical development and redevelopment, commerce
and industry, human relations, recreation and improved communication between
citizens and local government. In addition to these areas, Council may, from
time to time, suggest other areas for study.
§ 133.03  SUGGESTIONS SUBJECT TO APPROVAL.
   It is the intent of this chapter that the city’s Citizens Advisory Committee
shall make suggestions to Council, the city’s Planning Commission and the Board
of Zoning Appeals, as the case may be, but that these public bodies shall have
full power and authority to accept, modify, change and otherwise adopt or
refuse to adopt the suggestions of the Committee.
CHAPTER 137:  ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT
Section
137.01   Authority to issue citations
§ 137.01  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS.
   The Building Official, Housing Official, Zoning Administrator, Service
Director, Fire Chief or any authorized assistant thereof, is authorized to use
citation tags for the purpose of giving due notice and summons to the person or
persons responsible for violation of local ordinances.
   (a)   Such citation tag shall be in writing on the approved form, state the
nature of the violation, refer to the section or sections of the code violated,
and order that the violation be corrected by a stated date. The tag will
further state that failure to comply by the stated date will result in the
issuance of a summons without further notice and will require a court
appearance.
   (b)   The citation tag shall be served on the owner, occupant or agent
either in person or by certified mailing to the offending location or the tax
mailing address as indicated by the records of the County Treasurer.
   (c)   The citation tag as herein provided shall be sufficient notice and
legal service thereof for the purpose specified thereon; provided, however,
that the use of such tags shall not prohibit the issuance of either additional
citation tags or a legal notice of violation as otherwise provided in the
city’s codified ordinances.
   (d)   When a violation continues after the stated compliance date, the
Building Official, Zoning Administrator, Service Director, the Fire Chief or
any authorized assistant thereof, is further authorized to cause a summons to
be issued. Such summons shall be put in writing on an approved form, state the
nature of the violation, refer to the section or sections of the code violated,
order the defendant to appear at a stated time and place; and it shall be made
an oath by any person authorized by law to administer oaths.
   (e)   The summons shall be served on the owner, occupancy, or agent either
in person or by certified mailing to the offending location or the tax mailing
address as indicated by the records of the County Treasurer.
   (f)   Should a defendant served with the summons fail to appear within the
stated time, a warrant may be issued for the arrest of the defendant.
   (g)   When a defendant appears, but does to sign a guilty plea or waiver of
trial, the court shall proceed in accordance with Rule 5 of the state’s Rules
of Criminal Procedure.
   (h)   The summons as herein provided shall be sufficient notice and legal
service thereof for the purpose specified thereon; provided, however, that the
use of such summons shall not prohibit the issuance of either additional
citation tags or a legal notice of violation as otherwise provided in the
city’s codified ordinances.
(Ord. 36-93, passed 5-4-1993)
CHAPTER 139:  HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD
Section
139.01   Establishment
139.02   Purpose
139.03   Definitions
139.04   Board membership guidelines
139.05   Organization and rules
139.06   Designation criteria for Landmarks and Historic Preservation Districts
139.07   Procedures for establishing future Landmarks and Historic Preservation
Districts
139.08   Certificates of appropriateness
139.09   Certificate of appropriateness; application procedures
139.10   Procedures for the review of proposed changes to protected properties
139.11   Design guidelines
139.12   New construction guidelines
139.13   Demolition guidelines
139.14   Minimum maintenance requirement
139.15   Severability
 
139.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 103
§ 139.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   In recognition of the need for the establishment of a public body with
authority to act upon changes to structures in the Historic District, and in
other parts of the city as established by Council, and in order to encourage
changes that are compatible with the restoration movement now in progress, the
Historic Preservation Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board, is hereby
established.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.02  PURPOSE.
   (a)   Council, being mindful of the proud history of this community and of
the importance of beauty in the everyday lives of residents, hereby declare as
a matter of public policy that the preservation, restoration, rehabilitation
and overall aesthetic improvement of our community are matters of public
necessity involving the health, safety, prosperity and welfare of the people.
   (b)   The purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To establish procedures whereby certain areas, places, sites,
buildings, structures and objects shall be allowed the measure of protection
afforded by a thorough study of alternatives to incompatible alterations or
demolition before such acts are performed, so that the following objectives are
reached:
         A.   To maintain and enhance the distinctive character of historic
buildings and historic areas in the city;
         B.   To safeguard the architectural integrity of the city’s historical
resources within designated districts;
         C.   To safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving areas,
places, sites, buildings, structures and objects which reflect elements of the
city’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural heritage;
         D.   To seek alternatives to demolition or incompatible alterations
within designated areas and to listed properties before such acts are
performed;
         E.   To afford the widest possible scope of continuing vitality
through private renewal and architectural creativity within appropriate
controls and standards; and
         F.   To encourage development of vacant properties in accordance with
the character of the designated districts and listed properties.
      (2)   To contribute to the economic, recreational, cultural and
educational development of the city by:
         A.   Protecting and enhancing the city’s attractions to prospective
tourists, visitors and residents;
         B.   Providing support and stimulus to business and industry;
         C.   Strengthening the economy of the city;
         D.   Stabilizing and improving property values;
         E.   Fostering civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments
of the past;
         F.   Facilitating the reinvestment in and the revitalization of
certain older districts and neighborhoods;
         G.   Promoting the use and preservation of historic buildings, sites
and structures which reflect the cultural, social, economic or architectural
heritage of the city for the education and general welfare of the people of the
city;
         H.   Protecting the property rights of owners whose property lies
within areas of historic architectural significance;
         I.   Enhancing the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and
interests of the city;
         J.   Preserving the city’s architectural and historic significance in
the national context;
         K.   Considering and taking cognizance of the development of adjacent,
contiguous and neighboring buildings and properties for the purpose of
achieving safe, harmonious and integrated development of related properties;
         L.   Striving to have compatibility of any and all construction of new
improvements and buildings and modifications of existing structures with the
historic architectural character of the city; and
         M.   Preserving and further enhancing the civic pride of the residents
of the city in the beauty of the city and in the notable accomplishments of the
past.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTER  or ALTERATION.  Any change in the external architectural features of
any building or structure.
   APPLICANT.  Any owner, owners, person, persons, association, partnership or
corporation who applies for a conditional sign permit or who applies for a
certificate of appropriateness in order to undertake any change to any building
or structure subject to this chapter.
   APPLICATION.  An application for a certificate of appropriateness or a
conditional sign permit.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.  The architectural style and visual arrangement of
the exterior of a building or structure, including, but not being limited to,
the type, color and texture of materials, components and finishes and
including, but not limited to, all windows, doors, lights, signs and other
parts thereof.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE.  Being exemplary of one or more periods or
styles of architecture typical of one or more eras in the city’s history, or
being all or part of an assemblage of structures important to the city’s
history.
   ARTIFACTS.  The applied components of the building, such as light fixtures,
signs, door hardware, detached planters, and the like, which are an integral
part of the image.
   BOARD.  The Historic Preservation Board established under this chapter.
   BUILDING.  Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for shelter or enclosure.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.  A certificate issued by the Board
authorizing any new construction, demolition or alteration to any building or
structure in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CHANGE.  Any alteration, restoration, new exterior construction, demolition,
removal, protection or preservation work visibly affecting the exterior of a
building or structure, or the grounds of, a protected property, but not
including landscaping.
   COLOR.  Inherent colors such as the color of materials (i.e., brick and
stone) and applied colors such as paints and stains.
   CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE OR SITE.  Any structure or site which has been
identified by ordinance or resolution of the City Council as having significant
value in enhancing, identifying or defining a Historic Preservation District.
All other structures or sites within a Historic Preservation District are
noncontributing.
   COUNCIL.  The East Cleveland City Council.
   DEMOLITION.  The substantial deterioration or complete or substantial
removal or destruction of any contributing structure or site located within a
Historic Preservation District, or of any landmark.
   DETAIL/CRAFT.  The method of assembly of the building components and the
quality of work and material used in the assembly of the building image.
   FORM.  The geometric shape of the building components and their interaction
to create a whole image.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT.  The Historic District as approved by Council in this
chapter and any amendments thereto. It is an area which:
      (1)   Includes structures having historic or architectural significance;
      (2)   Is an identifiable area; and
      (3)   Has been designated as a Historic Preservation District by official
action of the City Council.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK.  Any individual building, structure or site with
historical or architectural significance, not within or contiguous to a
designated Historic Preservation District, which has been designated a Historic
Landmark by official action of the City Council.
   HISTORIC REGISTER BUILDINGS.  Those buildings listed on the United States
National Register of Historic Places.
   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE.  Includes:
      (1)   The attributes of a district, site or structure that possess
integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feelings and
association and:
         A.   Are associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of our history;
         B.   Are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past;
         C.   Embody the distinctive characteristic of a type, period or method
of construction, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or
         D.   Have yielded or may be likely to yield information important in
history or prehistory.
      (2)   Cemeteries, birthplaces or graves of historical figures, properties
owned by religious institutions, properties used for religious purposes,
structures that have been moved from their original locations, reconstructed
historic buildings, properties commemorative in nature and properties that have
achieved prominence within the past 50 years shall not be considered of
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE  unless they are integral parts of districts that meet
the above criteria, or if they fall within the following categories:
         A.   A religious property deriving primary significance from
architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance;
         B.   A building removed from its original location but which is
significant primarily for architectural value, or which is the surviving
structure most importantly associated with a historic person or event, or a
birthplace or graves of a historical figure of outstanding importance;
         C.   A cemetery that derives its primary significance from graves of
persons of transcendent importance, from age, from distinctive design features
or from association with historic events;
         D.   A reconstructed building is presented in a dignified and
significant manner when no other building with the same historical association
has survived;
         E.   A property primarily commemorative in intent, if design, age,
tradition or symbolic value has invested it with its own historical
significance; or
         F.   A property achieving significance within the past 50 years if it
is unique within the city, or if it is of exceptional historical importance.
   HISTORIC SITE. The real property on which a structure having historic
significance is located, or on which there is no structure but which is of
itself of historical significance.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any improvement to real property which has historic
significance.
   INFILL BUILDINGS.  Any new building to be constructed on a site with one or
more of its walls adjoining buildings on adjacent sites.
   MAINTENANCE.  Repair or replacement of an existing product, finish or
material without making any alteration.
   MASSING.  The interaction of height, width, depth and proportion, thus
forming a visual image of size.
   MATERIALS. Includes brick, wood, stone, metal, glass and the like which can
represent themselves or can be formed to represent another material (i.e.,
vinyl siding is typically formed to reference wood clapboard).
   MEMBER.  Any member of the Historic Preservation Board.
   ORIENTATION.  The juxtaposition of components and elements to each other as
well as the juxtaposition of the image as a whole to its environment.
   ORNAMENTATION.  An applied and incorporated decoration used to embellish the
building. Examples of ORNAMENTATION are cornices, window hoods, columns, quoins
and the like.
   OWNER.  The owner or owners of record of real property.
   PATTERN/RHYTHM.  The repetition of forms, materials, texture, elements and
the like in the image.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR.  The Planning Director of the city.
   PROPORTION.  The relationship in size, dimension, scale and the like of the
various elements of the building to themselves and the image as a whole.
   PROTECTED PROPERTY.  Any contributing structure or site within a Historic
Preservation District, and any landmark, is a property protected by this
chapter and subject to its regulations. All vacant lots within a Historic
Preservation District are PROTECTED PROPERTIES . If a noncontributing structure
in a Historic Preservation District is damaged in excess of 50% of its then
current market value, or is to be enlarged by more than 50% of its floor area,
such structure and its grounds shall become a PROTECTED PROPERTY for the
purposes of this chapter.
   SCALE. The perception of massing in relationship to various indicators such
as people, adjoining buildings and the site environment as a whole. SCALE is
typically observed on many visual levels for the same building or structure.
   SITE.  One or more lots, parcels or tracts of land which are historically,
architecturally, functionally or aesthetically cohesive.
   SITE SCAPING.  The components that combine to enhance the building site such
as benches, light fixtures, fences, planters, landscaping and the like.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, such as, but not limited to, buildings,
monuments, memorials, statues, poles, telecommunications equipment and the
like.
   STYLE.  The combination of elements and components in commonly recognized
and accepted patterns. Examples of STYLES are Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival,
Neo-Classic, Italian Renaissance, Second Empire, Art Deco, International, Post
Modern and the like.
   TEXTURE.  The visual such as caused by shadows and actual as when the
surface is physically touched.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.04  BOARD MEMBERSHIP GUIDELINES.
   A Historic Preservation Board (hereinafter the “Board”) is hereby created to
implement the purposes of this chapter by exercising the powers expressly
granted and necessarily implied herein. The Board shall consist of five members
who are qualified electors of the city and shall not be employees of the city
or members of Council; one member to be appointed by the Mayor, one member to
be appointed by the Judge of the city’s Municipal Court (the “Judge”) and three
members to be appointed by a majority of Council. All appointees of the Mayor
and the Judge shall be approved and confirmed by a majority vote of the members
of Council.
   (a)   Members. The Board shall consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   One member to be appointed by the Mayor;
      (2)   One member to be appointed by the Judge of the city’s Municipal
Court;
      (3)   Three members to be appointed by a majority of Council;
      (4)   At least one of the five members should be an architect, to the
extent he or she is available in the community;
      (5)   At least two of the five members should be a preservation-related
professional member, to the extent he or she is available in the community
(this shall include history, planning, archeology or related disciplines);
      (6)   All members shall have demonstrated special interest, experience or
knowledge in history, history of architecture or related disciplines as well as
a philosophical commitment to historic preservation through local legislation;
and
      (7)   Council may deviate from the above requirements in the event that
suitable volunteers with the prescribed credentials are not available.
   (b)   Terms of office. Members shall be appointed to serve for four-year
terms, except that the initial appointments shall be one for one year, two for
two years, one for three years, and one for four years. At least two of the
terms of office shall be staggered.
   (c)   Officers.
      (1)   Each January, the Board will elect a chairperson, a vice-
chairperson and a recording secretary from its members.
      (2)   The recording secretary shall be responsible for:
         A.   Taking and maintaining complete files of written minutes of all
meetings; and
         B.   Ensuring the preparation of an annual written report of the
Board’s activities, cases, decisions, special projects and the like.
   (d)   Meetings. The members of the Board shall determine the time, place and
frequency of meetings with the objective of providing efficient service to the
public and responsible advice and other assistance to Council. Notwithstanding,
members of the Board shall meet a minimum of four times per year. The Board
chairperson and secretary shall see that all meetings comply with the
requirements of the state’s Open Meeting Laws, Ohio R.C. 121.22 et seq. The
Board shall ensure adequate public participation in the historic preservation
program, including the process of recommending properties to the National
Register.
      (1)   All meetings of the Board shall be publicly announced, be open to
the public and have a previously advertised agenda. Public notice must be
provided prior to any special meetings.
      (2)   Careful minutes of all decisions and actions of the Board,
including the reasons for making these decisions, must be kept on file and
available for public inspection.
      (3)   All decisions by the Board shall be made in a public forum and
applicants shall be given written notification of decisions of the Board.
      (4)   The rules of procedure adopted by the Board shall be available for
public inspection.
   (e)   Vacancies.
      (1)   Vacancies shall be filled within 60 days, unless extenuating
circumstances require a longer period. An extension may be given in writing
upon petition of the Board to Council.
      (2)   The Chairperson will notify the Clerk of Court when a vacancy
exists.
   (f)   Procedure.
      (1)   A majority of the membership of the Board shall constitute a
quorum.
      (2)   A majority of the quorum shall be required to approve any action.
      (3)   Robert’s Rules of Order will guide the conduct of the meetings.
      (4)   The agenda for the meeting will be prepared by the chairperson of
the Board, or by the assigned staff liaison, if one is assigned.
      (5)   Agenda items will be determined by contacting the Board and the
Clerk of Council.
      (6)   Agenda items may include, but shall not be limited to:
         A.   Hearing of cases;
         B.   Deliberation of cases;
         C.   Findings of fact;
         D.   Approval/denials of certificate of appropriateness;
         E.   Old business;
         F.   New business;
         G.   Committee reports (if appropriate);
         H.   Approval of minutes from previous meeting; and
         I.   Announcements.
      (7)   At least five days before the meeting, the chairperson should check
with the Clerk of Council to ensure that:
         A.   Notices have been sent to applicants, attorneys, city staff
members and the media as appropriate;
         B.   All applications have been properly advertised and mailed on
time; and
         C.   Copies of completed applications have been mailed to Board
members, with maps and/or photographs.
      (8)   Board members should make every attempt to visit each property and
review each application before the meeting.
      (9)   Additional procedures may be adopted by the Board as necessary for
its governance. All procedures so adopted shall be in writing, executed by the
chairperson and secretary, and available for public inspection upon request.
   (g)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Any Board member who has a financial interest, direct or indirect,
in any agenda item shall notify the Board of that interest.
      (2)   The Board member shall refrain from voting on or participating in
any of the Board’s discussion or debate on the issue of concern.
      (3)   Any member of the Board who knowingly conceals such financial
interest or violates the requirements of this section may be removed from the
Board by Council.
   (h)   Compensation and removal.
      (1)   Board members shall serve without compensation.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (h)(1) above, the Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to pay from the General Fund the sums necessary
for supplies, paper, long distance telephone calls and travel mileage, incurred
at the rate per mile as provided by the United States Internal Revenue Service
for use of personal automobiles on Historical Preservation Board business.
      (3)   Members may be removed by Council at any time for just cause.
   (i)   Duties and authority.
      (1)   The Board shall have such duties and authority as may be provided
by this chapter and otherwise by ordinance, or as are necessarily implied
therefrom.
      (2)   The Board’s duties and authority shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
         A.   Permitting or denying the application of the owner for a
certificate of appropriateness permitting a change affecting a protected
property. Such approval shall be required in addition to all other permits
applicable to the property;
         B.   Developing and recommending to Council for adoption appropriate
historic design standards which promote the preservation and adaptive reuse of
protected properties. Such standards should reflect a Historic Preservation
District’s or Landmark’s historic and architectural significance, should not
limit new construction within a district to any one historical period or
architectural style, but rather seek to preserve the integrity and context of
existing historical structures; and should promote compatible new development
within the district. The guidelines shall:
            1.   Promote the conservation, development and use of structures,
sites and districts within the city;
            2.   Promote the historic, architectural, community or aesthetic
interest or value of the structures, sites and districts;
            3.   Promote the redevelopment of historic structures and
compatible new development within Historic Preservation Districts;
            4.   Not limit new construction within a Historic Preservation
District or to a landmark, but shall seek to preserve the integrity of existing
historic structures; and
            5.   Take into account the impact of the designation of a
structure, site or district on the residents of an affected area, the effect of
the designation on the economic and social characteristics of the affected
area, and the projected impact of the designation on the budget of the city and
other taxing entities.
         C.   Applying the Historic Design Standards to evaluate applications
for certificates of appropriateness;
         D.   Making recommendations to Council regarding amendments to this
chapter and with respect to other legislation affecting Historic Preservation
Districts or landmarks;
         E.   Establishing, within the spirit and purposes of this chapter,
procedures for evaluating applications for certificates of appropriateness;
         F.   Considering at least the following elements in the development of
Historic Design Standards: architectural style and authenticity; structural
proportion; foundation materials; exterior surfaces and their component
materials; building height; building width; roof type; exterior architectural
features; paving or walkways; significant landscaping features; coloring of the
exterior in relation to the age and style of the structure and the coloring of
the surrounding buildings;
         G.   Conducting or causing to be conducted a continuing survey of
cultural resources in the community, according to guidelines established by the
state’s Historic Preservation Office;
         H.   Acting in an advisory role to other officials and departments of
local government regarding the protection of local cultural resources;
         I.   Acting as a liaison on behalf of the local government to
individual and organizations concerned with historic preservation;
         J.   Working toward the continuing education of citizens within the
city regarding historic preservation issues and concerns;
         K.   Reviewing all proposed National Register nominations for
properties within its jurisdiction;
         L.   Seeking expertise in an area when the Board considers a National
Register nomination and other actions which are normally evaluated by a
professional in a specific discipline, and that discipline is not represented
on the Board (i.e., archaeology, archaeological site);
         M.   Conducting or encouraging members to attend educational sessions
at least once a year, or an in-depth consultation with the state’s Historic
Preservation Office pertaining to the work and functions of the Board or on
specific historic preservation issues. Barring extenuating circumstances, all
Board members should attend such a session at least once yearly;
         N.   Maintaining a system for the survey and inventory of historic
properties, including the following.
            1.   The Board shall initiate or maintain a process approved by the
Ohio Historic Preservation Office (OHPO) for the survey and inventory of
resources within its jurisdiction. The OHPO will consult with the city in
undertaking survey activities which will meet the needs of the city and OHPO.
            2.   The Board shall maintain a detailed inventory of the
designated districts, sites and structures under its specific jurisdiction.
            3.   The Board shall maintain securely all inventory material, and
have that inventory accessible to the public, except that access to
archaeological site locations may be restricted.
            4.   The Board shall maintain the inventories on state historic
inventory/state archaeological inventory forms, or forms compatible to the
state’s Historic Preservation office’s computerized inventory.
            5.   The Board shall make appropriate inventory forms available to
the state’s Historic Preservation office through duplicates (with contact
prints).
            6.   The Board shall periodically update the inventory forms to
reflect changes.
         O.   Additional responsibilities may be undertaken by the Board upon
mutual written agreement between the OHPO and the city. A written agreement
will address what duties are to be performed, what staff assistance is needed
to perform the work and what level of activity in each area of responsibility
will be maintained.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.05  ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   The Board shall establish and use written guidelines for the conservation of
designated local landmarks and Historic Districts in decisions on requests for
permits for alterations, demolitions or additions to listed landmarks,
buildings and sites within Historic Districts. In addition, the Board shall
prepare and make recommendations to Council regarding design guidelines, rules
and procedures for use in reviewing applications.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.06  DESIGNATION CRITERIA FOR LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DISTRICTS.
   In considering whether to recommend the designation of any area, property or
site in the city as a Historic Preservation District or Landmark, the Board
shall apply the following criteria:
   (a)   The character, interest or value of the area, property or site as part
of the development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, the state
or the United States;
   (b)   The location as a site of a significant prehistoric or historic event;
   (c)   The identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city;
   (d)   The exemplification by the area, property or site of the economic,
social or historic heritage of the city;
   (e)   The embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
type;
   (f)   The embodiment of elements of architectural design or detail or
materials or craftsmanship which represent architecture of significant
character, charm or grandeur;
   (g)   A unique location or singular physical characteristics representing an
established and unfamiliar visual feature of a neighborhood or of the city; and
   (h)   The portrayal of the environment of a group of people in an era of
history characterized by a distinctive architectural style.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.07  PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING FUTURE LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC
PRESERVATION DISTRICTS.
   To consider the establishment of a Historic Preservation District or
Landmark, the following procedure shall be followed.
   (a)   The initiation of a proposal for a Historic Preservation District may
be made only by one or more citizens of the city, or a city board, commission
or committee. The initiation of a proposal for a landmark may be made only by
the property owner or by a majority of the membership of the Council.
   (b)   The proposal shall be submitted to the Board.
   (c)   All known legal or equitable owners of the designated property and
abutting property owners shall be notified by mail of the proposal, and their
written comments requested.
   (d)   After review, the Board shall forward the proposal with its
recommendation and the owners’ written comments to the Planning Commission.
   (e)   The Planning Commission shall review the proposal, the recommendations
of the Board and the owners’ written comments and shall forward them to Council
with a recommendation.
   (f)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, Council
shall cause an appropriate ordinance to be prepared, shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposed legislation, setting forth a date, time and place, and
shall cause written notice to be given to the owner or any person having a
legal or equitable interest in the property being proposed for designation.
   (g)   Council shall give due consideration to the findings and
recommendations of the Board and Planning Commission, to the owners’ written
comments and to the public hearing comments, in making its determination with
respect to the proposed designation of an area, place, building, structure,
work of art or similar object as a historic district or landmark.
   (h)   After a decision by Council, the Clerk of Council shall notify all
persons known to have a legal or equitable interest in said property. The
Planning Commission and the Board shall also be notified.
   (i)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, Council may at any
time, after conducting a public hearing with reasonable advance written notice
being mailed to the affected property owners, rescind by ordinance the
designation of any area, place, building or structure as a landmark, Historic
Preservation District or contributing structure within a Historic Preservation
District.
   (j)   The Clerk of Council shall notify any appropriate county and/or state
offices after a designation is approved or rescinded.
   (k)   No legislation under this section shall be rendered invalid by any
failure or alleged failure of the Clerk of Council to provide a prescribed
notice by mail or otherwise, to any person.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.08  CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   The rules of the Board and its procedures for processing applications for
certificates of appropriateness are the following. These rules and procedures
are governed by the codified ordinances of the city and its Charter.
   (a)   Exclusions. Nothing in these rules, procedures and guidelines shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any building or
structure within the Historic District, provided such work involves no
alteration in architectural features.
   (b)   Geographic area. The geographic area within which a certificate of
appropriateness is required is a Historic Preservation District.
   (c)   When a certificate of appropriateness is required. A certificate of
appropriateness is required within the Historic District when any alteration is
contemplated to an existing building or structure, when the construction of a
new building or structure is contemplated or when the demolition of an existing
building or structure is contemplated.
   (d)   Amendments to a certificate of appropriateness. At any time prior to
completion of work under a certificate of appropriateness, an applicant may
apply for an amendment to the certificate.
   (e)   Expiration. A certificate of appropriateness expires one year from the
date it is granted. Once a certificate of appropriateness has been granted,
work must commence and be completed within one year of the date of the granting
of the certificate, unless the applicant applies for and receives an extension.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.09  CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS; APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Certificate requirement. No person shall make any change to any
protected property without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness
from the Board.
   (b)   Submission requirements. Before it can be considered at a meeting of
the Board, an application along with any supporting documents shall be filed
with the Planning Director. In order for an application to be reviewed and
approved, the applicant shall submit drawings, photographs, specifications and
material samples as outlined below. A minimum of six sets of drawings and one
set of photographs and material samples shall be submitted. These items shall
accurately represent the proposed alterations or additions and new
construction. The Planning Director will place the applicant on the next
meeting’s agenda and forward the submission copies to all Board members.
   (c)   Informal review. Any prospective applicant desiring a preliminary
review of work being proposed shall make such request to the Planning Director
to be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. There are no formal submission
requirements for informal review. The applicant can submit the proposal to the
Board in any form the applicant determines is appropriate. Informal review, if
any, is to take place before an application is filed.
   (d)   Review process. The applicant and/or the applicant’s agent shall
attend the scheduled Board meeting to present the proposed project and respond
to any questions members of the Board may have. The Board will then act upon
the submission as prescribed herein and the following order of review:
      (1)   The Applicant shall present the proposal and describe the
objectives and how the design reinforces these objectives;
      (2)   Statements by city officials, local preservation associations or
other interested persons shall be presented as directed by the Chairperson;
      (3)   The Board shall discuss the presentation as it responds to the
design guidelines/demolition criteria. The Chairperson shall summarize the
critique and call for a vote;
      (4)   The Board shall either approve, disapprove or modify the
application at one or more of its regular meetings within 60 days of the filing
of the action, unless an extension of time is approved by the applicant. If the
application is approved, a certificate of appropriateness will be issued. If
the Board fails to render a decision within the specified time period, the
application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be deemed approved;
      (5)   The Board shall approve or approve with conditions the certificate
of appropriateness upon finding that:
         A.   The proposal conforms to the guidelines; or
         B.   There is no feasible and prudent alternative or change which
would conform to the guidelines, and adhering to the guidelines would deny the
owner a reasonable rate of return on the real property or amount to a taking of
the property without just compensation.
      (6)   The Building Inspector shall not issue any permit for the proposed
change until a certificate of appropriateness is granted;
      (7)   In the case of a denial of a certificate of appropriateness for
demolition:
         A.   The Board and applicant shall undertake meaningful and continuing
discussion to find a means of preserving the property;
         B.   If the applicant fails to meet with the Board in good faith and
at specified times, then the denial of the applicant will stand;
         C.   After meeting with the applicant, if the Board determines that a
denial would create a substantial hardship to the applicant, it shall propose a
compromise which relieves the hardship, if it exists;
         D.   If, after meeting with the applicant, the Board has not reached a
compromise with the applicant which relieves substantial hardship, then the
applicant may appeal the decision directly to Council. Council may affirm,
modify or reverse the Board’s decision; and
         E.   In the case of an application for demolition, the Board may delay
a decision for up to 60 days upon finding that a structure is of such
importance that alternatives to demolition should be actively pursued by both
the Board and the applicant. Alternate steps to be investigated include, but
are not limited to:
            1.   Consultation with civic groups, public agencies and interested
citizens;
            2.   Recommendations for acquisition of the property by public or
private bodies; and
            3.   Exploration of the possibility of moving one or more
structures or other features.
      (8)   Notice of the decision of the Board regarding any application shall
be forwarded to the applicant by ordinary U.S. Mail within ten working days
after the decision date.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Violation, order. If it is found that any of the provisions of
these standards are being violated, the person responsible for such violations
shall immediately cease all work upon notification, and no work shall be
performed except to correct the violation. All violations shall be corrected
within a reasonable period and any violations not corrected within the
specified time may be prosecuted as set forth in §
139.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   Failure to comply. Whoever constructs, reconstructs or alters any
exterior architectural feature or demolishes a substantial part or all of any
building within the Historic District without a current certificate of
appropriateness from the Historic Preservation Board shall be fined not more
than $1,000. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Whoever violates this section may be required to restore and reconstruct such
features in full detail.
      (3)   Failure to perform. Whoever receives a certificate of
appropriateness from the Historic Preservation Board and constructs,
reconstructs or alters any exterior architectural feature other than in
accordance with the requirements of the certificate, shall be fined not more
than $1,000. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Whoever violates this section shall be required to make all changes and
additions necessary to comply with the certificate. Changes and additions shall
be in addition to any criminal penalty and not in lieu thereof.
   (f)   Appeals. Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by the enforcement
of these rules, procedures and design guidelines may take an appeal to the
Board of Zoning Appeals within ten days of receipt of the written notification
of the decision of the Planning Director or Historic Preservation Board.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.10  PROCEDURES FOR THE REVIEW OF PROPOSED CHANGES TO PROTECTED
PROPERTIES.
   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be approved if the
content is substantially in compliance with the following:
   (a)   The city’s historic design standards, adopted pursuant to this
chapter;
   (b)   The Secretary of the Interior’s standards for rehabilitation, set
forth below.
      (1)   A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new
use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces
and spatial relationships.
      (2)   The historic character of a property will be retained and
preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces and spatial relationships that characterize a properly will be avoided.
      (3)   Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic properties,
will not be undertaken.
      (4)   Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in
their own right will be retained and preserved.
   (c)   Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques
or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved;
   (d)   Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color, texture and,
where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will be
substantiated by documentary and physical evidence;
   (e)   Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken
using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic
materials will not be used;
   (f)   Archaeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If
such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken;
   (g)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction will
not destroy historic materials, features and spatial relationships that
characterize the property. The new work will be differentiated from the old and
will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and
proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its
environment; and
   (h)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be
undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.11  DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of these guidelines is to preserve the
architectural history of existing buildings or structures and to insure the
procedures and materials used are compatible with the existing building or
structure and help to ensure its preservation into the future and are meant to
give architects and owners design direction consistent with Chapter 139 of the
codified ordinances of the city. In principle, the Board adopts the United
States of America, Secretary of the Interior’s standards for rehabilitation.
   (b)   Preservation/rehabilitation/renovation. With respect to preservation/
rehabilitation/renovation, generally, it is the interest of the Board that
buildings within a Historic District be preserved, thus maintaining the
character of the Historic District. Consistent with the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s, standards of rehabilitation, the intent of these guidelines is to
preserve and restore the features that establish a building’s architectural
character while making alterations and renovations necessary for the efficient
and contemporary use of the building. The rehabilitation process assumes that
some alterations may be necessary to meet the needs of the building owner and
governing codes. Such alterations should be done so as not to destroy the
materials and features which help to define a building’s historic, cultural
and/or craftsmanship are important in defining the building character and
should be retained, protected and repaired when possible. When the preservation
of architectural features is not possible, alterations should be done in a
manner respectful of the existing character, but done in a manner that is
representative of architectural design and construction of contemporary times.
   (c)   Additions/new construction. With respect to additions/new construction
to existing buildings and all new buildings or structures, it is generally the
interest of the Board that such additions/new construction shall be designed to
enhance the character of the Historic District. Consistent with the preface of
these guidelines, new buildings and additions should be representative of
architectural design and construction of contemporary times. Additions to
existing buildings in a Historic District should be designed so as not to
detract from the original character of the building. Whenever possible,
additions should be located away from the primary or street face of the
building. The addition should be designed so as not to destroy existing
architectural features where feasible, such that the addition should be able to
be removed and the building restored to its original condition. New buildings
in a Historic District should be designed to be compatible with other
structures in the Historic District while still reflecting work of contemporary
times. To be compatible, a new building should incorporate some of the existing
architectural design characteristics of the Historic District. Proximity of
existing building to the new building will affect the latitude in design
constraints. An infill design should be more consistent with adjoining
buildings than a freestanding structure.
   (d)   Demolition. With respect to demolition, it is the interest of the
Board that buildings within a Historic District be preserved and renovated for
economically productive uses. Consistent with this intent, the Board also
realizes a Historic District is not a static environment, but an ever changing
and developing entity. Applications for demolition will be reviewed on a case-
by-case basis and will be based upon the overall impact that the demolition
will have to the Historic District and the community. The Board encourages the
saving and adaptive re-use of buildings significant to the character of the
Historic District and the history of the city. Demolition of any building or
structure that would detract from the Historic District or result in a loss of
historically significant qualities will be strongly discouraged. In reviewing
an application, the Board will also look at the proposed new use of the site
and how the new use will impact the Historic District. Demolition of existing
buildings that are not a significant loss to the Historic District to allow for
the construction of new buildings that will enhance the Historic District is
acceptable and may be encouraged by the Board.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.12  NEW CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define the architectural
principles and elements which the Historic Preservation Board will use to
review the design of new construction within the Historic District.
   (b)   Additions. The proposed addition must fulfill the following
requirements to be acceptable.
      (1)   Additions should be designed to preserve significant historic
materials and features and minimize the damage or loss of significant materials
and craftsmanship such as, but not limited to, pressed brick, decorative
marble, stone, terra-cotta or architectural metal.
      (2)   Alterations to primary elevations and features that distinguish the
building should be avoided. These features include, but are not limited to,
window patterns, shutters, porticos, entrances, doorways, roof shapes,
cornices, decorative moldings or glazing.
      (3)   Additions should preserve the historic character and be compatible
in size, scale, form, color, material and character so as not to visually
overpower or distract from the original building.
      (4)   Additions should protect the historical significance and be readily
distinguishable from older work, but the new work should be harmonious with the
old work as defined in division (b)(1) above. The plan for the new addition
should provide some differentiation in architectural design characteristics.
   (c)   Infill structures. The construction of proposed new infill buildings
on a vacant lot in the Historic District is encouraged. Such infill buildings
should fulfill the following criteria.
      (1)   The new building should be designed to be compatible with the
surrounding buildings. It should look as part of the whole.
      (2)   The new building should look new, using material and methodology
appropriate to today’s architecture. The design should not pretend to mimic
historic styles, but should be sensitive to the character of its neighbors.
      (3)   The use of pseudo-historic details and elements should be avoided
because it detracts from the Historic District by compromising the truly
historic character of the Historic District.
      (4)   Good infill buildings are compatible with many of the design
characteristics of the surrounding buildings and structures. Some of the
following design characteristics of the infill building should be reflective of
its neighbors:
         A.   Massing;
         B.   Scale;
         C.   Proportion;
         D.   Orientation;
         E.   Materials;
         F.   Form;
         G.   Pattern/rhythm; and
         H.   Color.
   (d)   Freestanding structures. The freestanding building has the greatest
latitude in design character to still be compatible with the character of the
Historic District. The new building should be reflective of the tradition of
the Historic District. The proposed new freestanding building must fulfill the
following requirements to be acceptable.
      (1)   Quality of design, materials and craftsmanship reflect the pride we
hold for a Historic District and its individual buildings. New buildings which
are representatives of quality design and use materials in character with a
Historic District make a positive contribution to a Historic District.
      (2)   The use of infill design concepts such as rhythm, proportion,
building form and materials establish consistency between an existing Historic
District and the new building.
      (3)   The new building should interact with pedestrians and the public
space in a manner consistent with the character of a Historic District.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.13  DEMOLITION GUIDELINES.
   The Board shall review all applications to demolish or move buildings or
structures for the effects of the proposed action on the city.
   (a)   If the Board finds the proposed action will have no detrimental effect
on the continued historic architectural character of the area and is in keeping
with the intent and purposes of this chapter, the application shall be
approved.
   (b)   If the Board finds the demolition or removal will have detrimental
effects on the city, approval may not be given for a period of up to 60 days.
During this period, the Board shall review the following:
      (1)   Alternative uses for the building or structure;
      (2)   Condition of the building;
      (3)   Potential return on investment by rehabilitation and use of the
building on the existing site;
      (4)   Efforts by owners to secure profitable new owners or lessees for
the building; and
      (5)   Impact of demolition or removal on adjoining structures and the
integrity of the area as a whole, including proposed new structures on the
vacated site.
   (c)   At the end of the 60-day period, or any extension mutually agreed upon
by the city and the applicant, the city or any other public or private body
shall either make a bona-fide purchase or lease offer for the building or
structure or the application for the demolition or moving shall be approved by
the Board.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.14  MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   The owner of a protected property shall provide sufficient maintenance and
upkeep for such structure to ensure its protection from hazards and to prevent
its deterioration.
   (a)   The above provisions shall be in addition to all other applicable
provisions of the building codes of the city and the state.
   (b)   The Board, on its own initiative, may request the Building Inspector
to inspect any protected property which, in the opinion of the Board, may be in
violation of the minimum maintenance requirement.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.15  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof is held invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared severable.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 139.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever causes or permits a change in a protected property involving
demolition, structural alteration or surface materials (other than a choice of
paint color) in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment
for not more than 180 days, or both.
   (b)   Whoever causes or permits a change to a protected property in
violation of this chapter but not subject to division (a) above, or fails to
comply with the minimum maintenance standards, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
of the second degree, punishable by a fine of not more than $750 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. A second violation of division
(a) above shall be deemed a first degree misdemeanor, punishable as such under
division (a) above.
   (c)   Whoever causes or permits any change to a protected property in
violation of this chapter shall, in addition to the penalties set forth in
divisions (a) and (b) above, be required to restore the protected property to
its previous condition, or to a condition approved by the Board as being in
conformance with this chapter.
   (d)   In the case of failure to comply with minimum maintenance standards,
or failure to restore a property under division (c) above, each month’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense, with the first offense
constituting a second degree misdemeanor and each subsequent offense
constituting a first degree misdemeanor.
   (e)   The Law Director is hereby authorized, upon request by the Board, to
seek injunctive orders and to take such other action as he or she may deem
reasonable and prudent to prevent an unlawful change affecting a protected
property, or to enforce the correction of unlawful changes or the maintenance
of deteriorating properties.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 6-3-2008)
CHAPTER 141:  AUDIT COMMITTEE
Section
141.01  Committee established; members; term; organization
§ 141.01  COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS; TERM; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Council specifically authorizes the formation of an Audit Committee
consisting of three members and confirmed by a majority vote of the members of
Council.
   (b)   The term of the members of the Audit Committee shall be for a period
of three years and until their successors are appointed.
   (c)   The Audit Committee shall organize at its first meeting and on each
anniversary date thereof by electing one of its members as Chairperson who
shall preside at all its meetings, and another as Vice-Chairperson. The
Director of Finance or the Assistant Director of Finance shall serve as
Secretary to keep the minutes, records and proceedings of the Audit Committee.
   (d)   The Audit Committee shall work with the city’s Director of Finance,
internal and independent auditors in connection with the city’s budget, its
audit report, management report, internal controls and other fiscal and
management matters.
   (e)   There is hereby appropriated from the General Fund a sufficient sum of
money to pay the costs of carrying out the directives of this chapter,
including a payment of $100 to each Audit Committee member for each meeting
attended.
   (f)   The Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to pay from
the General Fund the sums necessary for expenses incurred in carrying out the
business of the Audit Committee, including reimbursement for local and long
distance mileage incurred for use of personal automobiles on Audit Committee
business.
(Ord. 176-01, passed 8-21-2001)
CHAPTER 143:  YOUTH COMMISSION
Section
143.01   Establishment; membership procedures
143.02   Compensation
143.03   Organization
143.04   Responsibilities and duties
§ 143.01  ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP PROCEDURES.
   (a)   A Commission to be known as the city’s “Community Youth Commission”,
which shall consist of 21 students and five adults, is hereby established by
the city. The students must be school-aged and must be enrolled in a state
certified school system operating within the city or the city school district,
or actively participating in a home schooling situation. The adult must be 21
years of age or older. One adult will be appointed as the Commission’s advisor
and may also be a city employee or official. Members of the Commission with the
exception of the city employee serving as an advisor must reside or have a
vested interest in the well-being of the city.
   (b)   The adult members of the Commission shall be appointed to the
Commission in the following manner: one adult appointed by the Judge; two
adults appointed by the Mayor; and two adults appointed by Council. One member
of the five adults will serve as the advisor who will be appointed by the
Mayor.
   (c)   The school-aged youth shall be appointed in the following manner: five
youths will be appointed by the Judge; three youths will be appointed by the
Mayor; ten youths will be appointed by the Council; and three youths will be
appointed by the Superintendent of the city schools to be selected from among
those who attend city schools, those enrolled in state certified charter
schools and those who are in home school situations.
   (d)   School-aged youth should be representative of the school-aged
populations noted in §
143.04, which outlines the duties of the Commission, such that high school
students, middle school students, elementary school students and kindergartners
or their home schooled peers are represented with a voice on the Commission.
   (e)   Each adult member of the Commission shall be appointed to serve a one-
year term, commencing on January 1, 2007. Each of the initial student members
shall be appointed to serve from January 1, 2007 through August 30, 2007.
Thereafter, each student member shall be appointed to serve a one-year term
commencing in the last week in August and terminating on August 30 of the
following year.
(Ord. 87-06, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 143.02  COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Community Youth Commission shall serve in a spirit of
volunteerism and shall not receive compensation. Should any one city official
or employee be appointed to sit on the Commission or be appointed to serve as
an advisor, he or she will not receive any additional salary or wage as a
result of his or her appointment.
(Ord. 87-06, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 143.03  ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   The Commission shall organize at its first meeting in September by
electing a chairperson, vice- chairperson, secretary and treasurer from its
membership, by a majority vote of the membership or by a quorum, provided that
the first officers to serve under the terms of this chapter shall be appointed
by the Mayor and the members of Council. The manner of selection shall be as
follows: member(s) electing to serve as an officer will be given the
opportunity to identify the office selected and discuss their candidacy, after
which the Mayor and members of Council will cast ballots and the majority vote
will identify the newly elected officer.
   (b)   The Commission shall adopt its rules of procedure and shall hold
regular monthly meetings, except during period of recess as determined by the
Commission, and shall hold such further meetings, either regular or special, as
may be necessary to carry out its work.
(Ord. 87-06, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 143.04  RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission to promote and further the status,
well-being and quality of life for the youth of the city and it shall endeavor
to do the following:
   (a)   Promote and further the needs of the youth of the city by listening,
clarifying and prioritizing the needs and making plans to respond to the needs
in a comprehensive and effective manner;
   (b)   Plan, prepare, implement and evaluate programs and activities that
respond to the commonly stated priorities;
   (c)   Integrate and connect young people into the existing programs,
opportunities and resources within the community;
   (d)   Recommend to the city programs which will serve the needs of the youth
of the community;
   (e)   Develop an exceptional skills based leadership program for the high
school members of the Commission to prepare them for direct involvement in
civic life and service to the community;
   (f)   Develop an exceptional skills based leadership program for the
elementary members of the Commission to prepare them for direct involvement in
civic life and service to the community;
   (g)   Develop an exceptional skills based leadership program for the middle
school members of the Commission to prepare them for direct involvement in
civic life and service to the community;
   (h)   Develop an exceptional skills based leadership program for the five-
and six-year old kindergarten population members of the Commission to prepare
them for direct involvement in civic life and service to the community; and
   (i)   Develop an exceptional skills based leadership program for the members
of the Commission to prepare them for direct involvement in civic life and
service to the community that integrates the community’s school-aged children
that are involved in home schooling situations into the student peer group that
corresponds to their appropriate class and grade.
(Ord. 87-06, passed 12-19-2006)
TITLE 9:  FINANCES
   Chapter
      
171   Treasury and Other Investments
      
175   Claims
      
177   Fees, Charges and Funds
CHAPTER 171:  TREASURY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS
Section
171.01   Investment authorized
171.02   Conversion to cash
171.03   Treasury Investment Account; records
171.04   Credit on earnings
171.05   Custody of securities
171.06   Other investments
171.07   Disclosure of information by financial institutions seeking to become
public depositories
171.08   Financial institution’s pledge of nondiscrimination
171.09   Public depository and eligibility and deposit awards
Cross-reference:
   Appropriation and expenditure, see CHTR. §§
60 et seq; Ohio R.C. 5705.41
   Treasury investment, see Ohio R.C. 731.56 et seq.
   Uniform bond law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 133
§ 171.01  INVESTMENT AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever there are moneys in the city treasury which will not be required to
be used for a period of six months or more, the Director of Finance shall
submit to the Mayor and to the Director of Law, a statement of moneys in the
Treasury or in the process of collection, and a schedule showing the probable
requirements of money for the use of the city for such period of not less than
six months as the Mayor may direct, together with a recommendation as to
whether any moneys in the Treasury shall be invested in obligations as provided
by Ohio R.C. 731.56. The Mayor, Director of Law and the Director of Finance may
thereupon order such investments of moneys in the Treasury in such obligation,
at not more than the current market value, as they may deem advisable in the
interest of the city. Other than purchases of Federal Treasury securities, no
investment shall be made except in obligations which have been passed upon and
approved as to validity by a reputable firm of bond attorneys.
§ 171.02  CONVERSION TO CASH.
   Whenever it is necessary to convert any such investment into cash, it shall
be sold for not less than the current market value.
(Ord. 3249, passed 7-27-1937)
§ 171.03  TREASURY INVESTMENT ACCOUNT; RECORDS.
   The Director of Finance shall maintain an account to be known as the
Treasury Investment Account in which he or she shall enter all transactions
relating to the investment of Treasury funds as provided by this chapter. He or
she shall also maintain a record and furnish to the Mayor a duplicate of all
items entered thereon, showing all bonds or other securities purchased or sold
for the account of the Treasury with the number, maturity, date and interest
rate of each. He or she shall also keep a record of the number and maturity of
interest coupons.
(Ord. 3249, passed 7-27-1937)
§ 171.04  CREDIT ON EARNINGS.
   All earnings on investment of moneys through the Treasury Investment Account
shall be credited to the General Operating Fund.
(Ord. 5213, passed 11-4-1959)
§ 171.05  CUSTODY OF SECURITIES.
   All securities belonging to the Treasury of the city or to any fund thereof
shall be in the custody of the Director of Finance and shall be kept by him or
her in a safe deposit box or vault belonging to a regular city depository. Such
safe deposit box or vault shall be opened only in the presence of the Director
of Finance, and the Mayor or the Director of Law, and only upon a warrant or
order of the Director of Finance directing the deposit or removal of securities
purchased, matured or sold, or the clipping of interest coupons for collection.
A report of whatever is placed in or removed from such safe deposit box or
vault upon any such occasion shall be signed by the Director of Finance, and
the Mayor or the Director of Law, and shall be returned to the Director of
Finance upon the same day.
(Ord. 3249, passed 7-27-1937)
§ 171.06  OTHER INVESTMENTS.
   (a)   Moneys in the General Bond Retirement Fund, the Special Assessment
Bond Retirement Fund, the Federal portion of any Urban Renewal or Neighborhood
Development Program Fund, or of any other fund not eligible for inclusion in
the Treasury Investment Fund, which are not needed for a period of time to
satisfy the probable requirements of money for such fund, may be invested in
obligations permitted by applicable law.
   (b)   The procedure for authorizing such investment, any conversions to
cash, the keeping of records, the custody of securities and other transactions
and procedures in connection therewith, shall be substantially in accordance
with the provisions of §§
171.01,
171.02,
171.03 and
171.05.
   (c)   All earnings on investments of moneys of any specific fund pursuant to
this section shall be credited to such fund.
§ 171.07  DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION BY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SEEKING TO BECOME
PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES.
   Each public depository, as defined in R.C. Chapter 135, desiring to make
application for the deposit of any public moneys of the city shall, along with
each bid, supply the following information concerning lending and deposits:
   (a)   The amount of real estate mortgage and improvement loans for the last
full preceding calendar year respecting real estate in the following
categories:
      (1)   All real estate wheresoever situated;
      (2)   All residential real estate wheresoever situated;
      (3)   All real estate situated in the city; and
      (4)   All residential real estate situated in the city.
   (b)   The percentage of real estate mortgage or improvement loans for the
last full preceding calendar year invested in real estate situated in the city
with respect to all such investments in real estate wheresoever situated;
   (c)   The following information to be reported on residential loans shall be
classified separately for property containing:
      (1)   Dwelling units for not more than four families and condominium and
co-operative units; and
      (2)   Dwelling units for more than four families in aggregate. Only loans
closed within the previous calendar year shall be reported:
         A.   The number and total amount of all loans made on residential
property within each census tract in the city; and
         B.   The number and total amount of all home improvement or
rehabilitation loans made on residential properties within each census tract in
the city.
   (d)   Copy of latest mortgage loan disclosure report required by the Home
Mortgage Disclosure Act 1975, being 12 U.S.C. §§ 2801 et seq. (Title III Pub.
Law No. 94-200);
   (e)   Copy of latest Federal Community Reinvestment Act statement, as
required by Title VIII of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1977,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq. (Pub. Law No. 95-128);
   (f)   The depository limit established by Ohio R.C. 135.03, Chapter 135; and
   (g)   Each applicant shall meet with Council members or their
representatives to review the credit needs of the community and the information
supplied by the applicant with the objective of encouraging and increasing
investments within the city.
(Ord. 7325, passed 8-9-1979)
§ 171.08  FINANCIAL INSTITUTION’S PLEDGE OF NONDISCRIMINATION.
   Along with each such bid, the Director of Finance shall obtain signature by
either the Chairperson of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or an officer
acceptable to the Director of Finance, of the bidding bank or savings and loan
association on the following pledge: “We pledge not to arbitrarily reject
mortgage loans for residential properties within a specific geographic area in
East Cleveland because of the location and/or age of the property, or in the
case of proposed borrower to arbitrarily vary the terms of those loans or the
application procedures for those loans because of race, color, religion,
national origin, age, sex or marital status. In addition, we pledge to make
loans available on low and moderate income residential property in the
neighborhoods of the city within the limits of our legal restrictions and
prudent financial practices.”
(Ord. 7019, passed 7-5-1977)
§ 171.09  PUBLIC DEPOSITORY AND ELIGIBILITY AND DEPOSIT AWARDS.
   Awards of active or interim public funds of the city shall be made upon
applications, including all information required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 135 to
establish eligibility of the depository in general, and all information and
conditions specified by this chapter with eligibility for deposit of city funds
further limited as follows.
   (a)   The public depository must be situated in the county and satisfy all
eligibility requirements of Ohio R.C. Chapter 135 and
Chapter 171 herein.
   (b)   The public depository must rank in the top ten of all applicants when
rated as the sum of points assigned as follows:
      (1)   Ten points for having one or more permanent offices situated in the
city;
      (2)   Sixty points to be awarded to the applicant which invested the most
funds during the last full calendar year in the city mortgage and improvement
loans reported pursuant to §
171.07(a)(3) and the proportion of 60 points shall be awarded to the other
applicants that their respective reported investment in the same category bears
to the highest reporting applicant; and
      (3)   Thirty points to be awarded to the applicant which invested the
highest percentage of real estate mortgage or improvement loans in the city
reported pursuant to §
171.07(b) and the proportion of 30 points to the other applicants that their
respective reported percentage of investment in the same category bears to the
percentage of city investment of the highest reporting applicant.
   (c)   Active or demand deposits shall be made only with eligible national
banks as described in Ohio R.C. 135.03 in proportion to their points of ranking
in the top ten of all applicants pursuant to division (b) above by the Director
of Finance as soon as practicable after award pursuant to division (e) below.
   (d)   Interim deposits, those bearing interest for terms of least 30 days
and less than six months, shall be made by the Finance Director only with
national banks or domestic building and loan associations described in Ohio
R.C. 135.03 and ranking in the top ten applicants pursuant to division (b)
above. The Director of Finance shall award interim deposits of funds not needed
for current expenses, in the opinion of the Director of Finance, to the
eligible depository quoting the highest interest rate and shall attempt to
award such interim deposits to all eligible depositories in proportion to their
points of ranking in the top ten of all applicants pursuant to division (b)
above as cases of equal interest quotations arise.
   (e)   The Director of Finance shall advertise for applications to establish
public depository eligibility and deposit awards respecting the active and
interim funds of the city at least 30 days prior to the last regular Council
meeting scheduled in August, requiring the filing of such applications to be
made at least two weeks prior to such meeting to permit scheduling of applicant
meetings pursuant to §
171.07(g). Declaration of eligibility and awards the Director of Finance at
such August meeting of Council upon motion approved by a majority vote.
(Ord. 7325, passed 8-9-1979)
CHAPTER 175:  CLAIMS
Section
175.01   Settlement authorized
175.02   Water and sewer charges
Cross-reference:
   Certification of funds, see CHTR. §
65; Ohio R.C. 5705.41
   Payment of claims, see CHTR. §
64
§ 175.01  SETTLEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The Director of Law and the Mayor shall have the power and are hereby
authorized to adjust, settle, compromise or submit to arbitration any actions,
causes of action, suits, damages, accounts, debts, claims, demands, disputes
and matters in favor of or against the city or in which the city is concerned
as debtor or creditor, now existing or which may hereafter arise, except in
instances where the action, cause of action, suit, damage, account, debt,
claim, demand or dispute exceeds $500. Nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the Director of Law, the Director of Finance, the Mayor or Council to
act upon claims where the entire cost is paid by an insurance company. The
Mayor shall have the power and is hereby authorized to adjust and settle claims
of the city for damage to city property wherein the amount of the claim
regularly reported and invoiced by the Finance Director does not equal or
exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 7105, passed 12-20-1977)
§ 175.02  WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (a)   The Director of Finance (Water Administrator), Mayor and Director of
Law are hereby authorized to settle outstanding water and sewer accounts owing
the city’s Division of Water.
   (b)   In the settlement of water and sewer rental accounts over $500, the
settlement shall be recommended by the Director of Finance and concurred in by
both the Mayor and the Director of Law, in writing, and a copy of such
settlement shall be placed in the records of the Division of Water. This
section is adopted notwithstanding and as an exception to any other section of
the codified ordinances of the city in conflict herewith.
(Ord. 7573, passed 7-20-1982)
CHAPTER 177:  FEES, CHARGES AND FUNDS
Section
177.01   Pistol range use and fees
177.02   Charges for copies of records
177.03   Charges for booklet publications
177.04   Vital statistic fees; Public Information Fund
177.05   Bid deposits
177.06   “No parking” signs for private property; fee
177.07   Confinement cost reimbursement; governmental entities, fees
177.08   Charges relating to special assessments
177.09   Special School Safety Zone Fund
Cross-reference:
   Investments, see §§
171.01,
171.06
§ 177.01  PISTOL RANGE USE AND FEES.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into written agreements with
private organizations in which membership is open to all city residents meeting
the skill and motivation requirements thereof and governmental organizations
for the rental and use of the city pistol range.
   (b)   Such written agreements shall be approved by the Mayor and the
Director of Law and shall contain, among others, the provisions as follows.
      (1)   The city shall employ at least one range supervisor to supervise
the various groups renting the range, the number of range supervisors to be
employed for a particular group to be determined by the Mayor.
      (2)   The city shall be reimbursed by the private or governmental
organizations requesting such services for at least the hourly rate of the
range supervisors, with a minimum of a two-hour charge, plus a fee for overhead
amounting to 25% of the range supervisor fees as aforesaid.
(Ord. 6520, passed 10-2-1973)
§ 177.02  CHARGES FOR COPIES OF RECORDS.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to furnish photostatic or other copies
of legislation, reports, police records and other records of the city to
persons requesting the same under such rules and regulations as he or she may
establish. This section shall not be construed as requiring the Mayor to
furnish copies of any such records.
   (b)   The fee to be charged for furnishing such copies shall be as provided
in Chapter 107.
   (c)   Such fees shall be waived for cases involving the city and may be
waived for public institutions and associations.
(Ord. 5572, passed 8-31-1964; Ord. 7598, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 177.03  CHARGES FOR BOOKLET PUBLICATIONS.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to issue copies of the codified
ordinances at a cost of $100 per copy (without a hardback binder), with the
exception of the Charter of the city which shall be provided at a cost of $0.10
per page.
   (b)   (1)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the
Mayor from issuing copies of the above publication without charge to employees
of the city in the conduct of regular city business and to public institutions
and associations.
      (2)   The charge for portions of the codified ordinances for which the
supply of printed copies is exhausted or for which no charge is hereinabove
specified shall be at the rate of $1 per copy of each side of original record
made, whichever charge shall be the lesser.
(Ord. 14-98, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 177.04  VITAL STATISTIC FEES; PUBLIC INFORMATION FUND.
   (a)   Subject to the approval of the state’s Bureau of Inspection and
Supervision of Public Offices, a special fund known as the “East Cleveland
Public Information Fund” is hereby created.
      (1)   All receipts for services rendered by city employees as Registrar
or Deputy Registrars of Vital Statistics pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3705.13,
including any balance remaining in the existing special account heretofore
created by such fees, shall be paid into such Public Information Fund.
      (2)   Such Fund shall be used for the purpose of preparing and
disseminating information to the public concerning municipal affairs,
including, but not limited to, annual and special reports, information for new
residents, information on bonds issues or special levies, expenses attendant to
public exhibits or tours through municipal buildings or departments, and
special circular letters of instructions on municipal matters.
   (b)   The Registrar of Vital Statistics shall, upon request, supply to any
applicant an exact copy of any record of birth, death or stillbirth which such
Registrar may have in his or her possession, for a fee of $25 for each such
copy.
(Ord. 7760, passed 1-15-1985; Ord. 64-91, passed 7-23-1991; Ord. 215-01, passed
10-3-2001; Ord. 120-03, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 73-09, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 177.05  BID DEPOSITS.
   (a)   Every prospective bidder for a public works contract or improvement
shall be required to make a nonrefundable deposit of money with the Director of
Finance at the time such bidder obtains each set of bid documents from the
Purchasing Division, as follows.
 
Estimated Construction Cost              Deposit Required
Up to $200,000                           $25
200,001 and above                        $50
For each additional page of plans copied $5
 
   (b)   All deposits required hereunder shall be collected and disbursed by
the Director of Finance and credited and debited to the proper account.
   (c)   The Director of Finance is hereby authorized to return to each bidder
the deposit required hereunder when each set of bid documents is returned
within ten days after opening of bids by the Purchasing Division.
(Ord. 6586, passed 4-16-1974)
§ 177.06  “NO PARKING” SIGNS FOR PRIVATE PROPERTY; FEE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to issue “No Parking” signs to be used for
enforcement of §
351.17, prohibiting parking on private property, upon receipt of the sum of
$25, the fee and charge of each such sign and the issuance thereof.
(Ord. 32-93, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 177.07  CONFINEMENT COST REIMBURSEMENT; GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES, FEES.
   (a)   There is hereby established a fee of $85 per day per prisoner for the
use of the city jail for the housing of prisoners arrested in the city and
referred directly or indirectly by the county, and by other governmental
entities.
   (b)   In addition to the fee as set forth in division (a) above, an
additional charge shall be assessed to reimburse the city for any and all
medical expenses incurred by any such prisoner while housed in the city jail on
a short-term emergency or temporary basis, or otherwise.
   (c)   The Chief of Police, and/or his or her designee, or Jail Administrator
shall keep an accurate record of the use of the city jail facilities by the
county and by other governmental entities, and shall promptly invoice the
county and other governmental entities, and send a copy thereof to the Director
of Finance of the city.
   (d)   All fees and reimbursement hereunder be made to the Director of
Finance who is authorized and directed to accept any and all moneys for which
reimbursement or payments hereunder is made, and the deposit of same to be made
as follows:
      (1)   One third percent to be deposited in a special fund or special
account devoted exclusively for the renovation or restoration of the city jail
to state mandated minimum standards up to an amount over a course of time of
$75,000;
      (2)   The remaining two thirds percent to be deposited by the Director of
Finance in the General Fund Account of the city; and
      (3)   But when the said amount of one third percent has reached the
amount of $75,000 to be applied to the renovation or restoration of the city
jail as stated above, then the one third percent of all such moneys, fees,
costs or payments received by the Director of Finance shall be deposited into
the General Fund same as for the remaining two thirds percent, and the Special
Jail Account shall not thereafter be entitled to have deposited any further
moneys from the proceeds derived hereunder but the entire 100% of all proceeds
derived hereunder shall be deposited in the General Fund, and the Director of
Finance is directed to report the occurrence of this event to the Council.
(Ord. 7951, passed 11-29-1988)
§ 177.08  CHARGES RELATING TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Mayor and/or Director of Finance is hereby authorized to charge a fee of
$5 per request for each location to any person or organization requesting city
officials research and/or certify any special assessment for real property
located in the city.
(Ord. 48-91, passed 5-21-1991)
§ 177.09  SPECIAL SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE FUND.
   There is hereby created a Special School Safety Zone Fund. The Fund shall be
funded from proceeds received from the City’s unmanned photo monitoring traffic
program. To ensure the integrity of the unmanned photo monitoring traffic
program’s funding, the Finance Director is instructed to specifically maintain
a special fund for the receipts and expenditures exclusive to the school safety
zone activities. In order to support this funding, it is required that such an
adequate special fund account be established through the creation of a School
Safety Zone Special Fund with the ability of the City Administration to raise
such amount should it prove insufficient for the unmanned photo monitoring
traffic program.
(50-19, passed 12-17-2019)
TITLE 11:  TAXATION
   Chapter
      
191   Income Tax Effective Through December 31, 2015
      
192   Income Tax Beginning January 1, 2016
      
193   Admissions Tax
      
195   Motor Vehicle License Tax
CHAPTER 191:  INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2015
Section
Purpose
191.0101   Purpose of levy on income tax
Definitions
191.0301   Definitions generally
191.0302   Administrator
191.0303   Association
191.0304   Board of Review
191.0305   Business
191.0306   Corporation
191.0307   Employee
191.0308   Employer
191.0309   Fiscal year
191.0310   Gross receipts
191.0311   Net profits
191.0312   Nonresident
191.0313   Nonresident unincorporated business entity
191.0314   Person
191.0315   Place of business
191.0316   Resident
191.0317   Resident unincorporated business entity
191.0318   Taxable income
191.0319   Taxable year
191.0320   Taxpayer
Imposition of Income Tax
191.0501   Rate and income taxable
191.0502   Effective period
Determination of Allocation of Tax
191.0701   Method of determination
191.0702   Sales made in city
191.0703   Total allocation
191.0704   Rentals
191.0705   Operating loss carry-forward
Contractors/Subcontractors
191.0706   Registration of contractor and subcontractor
191.0706.01   Contractor registration
191.0706.02   Application for registration
191.0706.03   Registration denial; renewal
191.0706.04   Registration pre-requisite for other matters
191.0706.05   Exemptions
191.0706.06   Definition
191.0706.07   Penalty
Exemptions
191.0901   Sources of income not taxed
Returns
191.1101   When return required to be made
191.1102   Form and contents of return
191.1103   Extension of time for filing returns
191.1104   Consolidated returns
191.1105   Amended returns
Payment of Tax
191.1301   Payment of tax on filing of return
191.1302   Collection at source
191.1303   Declaration of income
191.1304   Filing of declaration
191.1305   Form of declaration
191.1306   Payment to accompany declaration
191.1307   Annual return
Interest and Penalties
191.1501   Interest on unpaid tax
191.1502   Penalties on unpaid tax; penalties on failure to file return
191.1503   Exceptions
191.1504   Abatement of interest and penalty
191.1505   Violations
191.1506   Limitation on prosecution
191.1507   Failure to procure forms not excuse
Collection of Unpaid Taxes and Refunds of Overpayments
191.1701   Unpaid taxes recoverable as other debts
191.1702   Refund of taxes erroneously paid
191.1703   Amounts of less than one dollar
Taxpayer Relief and Reciprocity Provisions
191.1902   Tax credit
Disbursement of Receipts of Tax Collection
191.2101   Disbursement of funds collected
Duties and Authority of the Administrator
191.2301   Duty to receive tax imposed
191.2302   Duty to enforce collection
191.2303   Authority to make and enforce regulations
191.2304   Authority to arrange installment payments
191.2305   Authority to determine amount of tax due
191.2306   Authority to make investigations
191.2307   Authority to compel production of records
191.2308   Refusal to produce records
191.2309   Confidential nature of information; disclosure of returns and return
information
191.2310   Taxpayer required to retain records
191.2311   Authority to contract for central collection facilities
191.2312   Assignment of Administrator’s duties
Board of Tax Appeals
191.2501   Board of Tax Appeals established
191.2502   Duty to approve regulations and to hear appeals
191.2503   Right of appeal
Board of Adjudication
191.2504   Board of Adjudication established
191.2505   Duty to hear appeals
191.2506   Right of appeal
Other Provisions
191.2701   Declaration of legislative intent
191.2702   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
Cross-reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 718
PURPOSE
§ 191.0101  PURPOSE OF LEVY ON INCOME TAX.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal functions of the city
there shall be and is hereby levied a tax on all salaries, wages, commissions
and other compensations and on net profits as hereinafter provided, except that
an amount sufficient to pay the accrued liability for the Police and Fire
Disability and Pension Fund, beginning with the year 1970 and not to exceed 10%
of the moneys collected from the municipal income tax, shall be directly
allocated to the accrued liability for such fund. The purpose of any income tax
levied in excess of 1%, authorized by the electors of the city, shall be to
provide funds for general municipal functions.
(Approved by voters 8-3-1982)
DEFINITIONS
§ 191.0301  DEFINITIONS GENERALLY.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings given in the next succeeding sections of
this chapter. The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter. (Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0302  ADMINISTRATOR.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Finance or his or her authorized
representative, the Deputy Tax Administrator. These shall administer and
enforce the provisions of the city income tax. The Deputy Tax Administrator
shall be in charge of the tax division, but shall serve under the authority,
control and supervision of the Director of Finance, or Administrator, who shall
be finally accountable to Council.
(Ord. 7583, passed 8-17-1982)
§ 191.0303  ASSOCIATION.
   ASSOCIATION.  Any partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0304  BOARD OF REVIEW.
   BOARD OF REVIEW.  The board created by and constituted as provided in §
191.2501.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0305  BUSINESS.
   BUSINESS.  Any enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity,
excluding, however, all nonprofit corporations which are exempt from the
payment of federal income tax.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0306  CORPORATION.
   CORPORATION.  A corporation or joint-stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the state or any other state, territory or foreign
country or dependency.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0307  EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYEE.  One who works for wages, salary, commission or other type of
compensation in the service of an employer.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0308  EMPLOYER.
   EMPLOYER.  An individual, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, unit or agency or any other entity, whether or not organized
for profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other basis of compensation.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0309  FISCAL YEAR.
   FISCAL YEAR.  An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0310  GROSS RECEIPTS.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  The total income from any source whatever.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0311  NET PROFITS.
   NET PROFITS.  A net gain from the operation of a business, profession,
enterprise or other activity after provision for all ordinary and necessary
expenses either paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used
by the taxpayer for federal income tax purposes, without deduction of taxes
imposed by this chapter, federal, state and other taxes based on income and in
the case of an association, without deduction of salaries paid to partners and
other owners.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0312  NONRESIDENT.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual domiciled outside the City of East Cleveland.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0313  NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY.
   NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having an office or place of business within the city.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0314  PERSON.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the term PERSON  as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0315  PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS.  Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office), factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity individually or through one or
more of his or her regular employees regularly in attendance.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0316  RESIDENT.
   RESIDENT.  An individual domiciled in the City of East Cleveland.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0317  RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY.
   RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY.  An unincorporated business entity
having an office or place of business within the city.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0318  TAXABLE INCOME.
   TAXABLE INCOME.  Wages, salaries and other compensation paid by an employer
before any deduction. “Other compensation” includes but is not limited to:
   (a)   Bonuses;
   (b)   Commissions;
   (c)   Incentive payments;
   (d)   Directors fees;
   (e)   Property in lieu of cash;
   (f)   Tips, dismissal or severance pay;
   (g)   Supplemental income benefits for early retirement, regardless of
label, such as sick leave, disability, vacation pay;
   (h)   Wage continuation plans;
   (i)   Supplemental unemployment benefits;
   (j)   Depreciation recapture;
   (k)   Gifts and gratuities in connection with employment;
   (l)   Fellowships, grants and stipends;
   (m)   Group term life insurance protection over $50,000 (taxed on the entire
cost);
   (n)   Benefits resulting from an employer’s assumption of a tax;
   (o)   Stock options given as compensation;
   (p)   Income from gaming, wagering and lotteries, including the state
lottery;
   (q)   Net profits from the operation of a business, profession or other
enterprise or activity adjusted in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and
   (r)   All other compensation earned, received or accrued.
(Ord. 93-92, passed 9-29-1992)
§ 191.0319  TAXABLE YEAR.
   TAXABLE YEAR.  The calendar year or the fiscal year upon the basis of which
the net profits are to be computed under this chapter, and in the case of a
return for a fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is
required to be made.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0320  TAXPAYER.
   TAXPAYER.  A person, whether an individual, partnership, association or any
corporation or other entity required herein to file a return or pay a tax.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX
§ 191.0501  RATE AND INCOME TAXABLE.
   An annual tax for the purposes specified in §
191.0101 shall be imposed upon the hereinafter specified income on and after
September 1, 1982 at the rate of 2% per annum. Such tax shall be imposed upon
the following income:
   (a)   On all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation earned on
and after September 1, 1982, by residents of the city, the term OTHER
COMPENSATION including, but not limited to, income earned or derived from
gaming, wagering, lotteries, including the state lottery, or schemes of chance,
all of which shall not be taxed as business income unless the individual
subject to this tax has a federal gamblers’ permit effective during the tax
year in which such income from gaming, wagering, lotteries or schemes of chance
is received.
   (b)   On all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation earned on
and after September 1, 1982, by nonresidents of the city for work done or
services performed or rendered within the city.
   (c)   (1)   On the portion attributable to the city on the net profits
earned on and after September 1, 1982, of all resident unincorporated business
entities or professions or other activities derived from sales made, work done,
services performed or rendered and business or other activities conducted in
the city.
      (2)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on and after September 1, 1982, of a resident partner or owner of a resident
unincorporated business entity not attributable to the city and not levied
against such unincorporated business entity.
   (d)   (1)   On the portion attributable to the city of the net profits
earned on and after September 1, 1982, of all nonresident unincorporated
business entities, professions or other activities derived from sales made,
work done, services performed or rendered and business and other activities
conducted in the city, whether or not such unincorporated business entity has
an office or place of business in the city.
      (2)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on or after September 1, 1982, of the resident partner or owner of a
nonresident unincorporated business entity not attributable to the city and not
levied against such unincorporated business entity.
   (e)   On the portion attributable to the city of the net profits earned on
and after September 1, 1982, of all corporations derived from sales made, work
done, services performed or rendered and business or other activities conducted
in the city, whether or not such corporations have an office or place of
business in the city.
(Approved by voters 8-3-1982)
§ 191.0502  EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   Such tax shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to salaries,
wages, commissions and other compensation and with respect to the net profits
of businesses, professions or other activities earned during the period
commencing on July 1, 1968, and ending on June 30, 1976, at the rate of 1% per
annum and on and after July 1, 1976, at the rate of 1.5% per annum and on and
after September 1, 1982, at the rate of 2% per annum.
(Approved by voters 8-3-1982)
DETERMINATION OF ALLOCATION OF TAX
§ 191.0701  METHOD OF DETERMINATION.
   (a)   In the taxation of income which is subject to city income taxes, if
the books and records of a taxpayer conducting a business or profession both
within and without the boundaries of the city shall disclose with reasonable
accuracy what portion of its net profit is attributable to that part of the
business or profession conducted within the boundaries of the city, then only
such portion shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the city for the
purposes of municipal income taxation. The portion of the entire net profits of
a taxpayer to be allocated as having been derived from within the city, in the
absence of actual records thereof, shall be determined as follows: multiply the
entire net profits by a business allocation percentage to be determined by a
three-factor formula of property, payroll and sales, each of which shall be
given equal weight, as follows.
   (b)   The average net book value of the real and tangible personal property
owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession in the city during
the taxable period to the average net book value of all the real and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
during the same period, wherever situated. As used in the preceding paragraph,
REAL PROPERTY  shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the
value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental
thereon by eight.
   (c)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable period
to persons employed in the business or profession for services performed in the
city to wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the same period to
persons employed in the business or profession, wherever their services are
performed.
   (d)   (1)   Gross receipts of the business or profession from sales made and
services performed during the taxable period in the city to gross receipts of
the business or profession during the same period from sales and services,
wherever made or performed.
      (2)   In the event that the foregoing allocation formula does not produce
an equitable result, another basis may, under uniform regulations, be
substituted so as to produce such result.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0702  SALES MADE IN CITY.
   As used in §
191.0701(c) SALES MADE IN THE CITY  means:
   (a)   All sales of tangible personal property which is delivered within the
city, regardless of where title passes, if shipped or delivered from a stock of
goods
within the city;
   (b)   All sales of tangible personal property which is delivered within the
city, regardless of where title passes, even though transported from a point
outside the city if the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own employees
in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the city and the sales result
from such solicitation or promotion; and
   (c)   All sales of tangible personal property which is shipped from a place
within the city to purchasers outside of the city, regardless of where title
passes, if the taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in
the solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0703  TOTAL ALLOCATION.
   Add together the percentages determined in accordance with §
191.0701(a), (b) and (c) of or such of the aforesaid percentages as are
applicable to the particular taxpayer and divide the total so obtained by the
number of percentages used in deriving such total in order to obtain the
business allocation percentage referred to in §
191.0701. A factor is applicable even though it may be allocable entirely in or
outside the city.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.0704  RENTALS.
   (a)   Rental income received by a taxpayer shall be included in the
computation of net profits from business activities under §
191.0501(c), (d) and (e), only if and to the extent that the rental, ownership,
management of operations of the real estate from which such rentals are derived
(whether so rented, managed, or operated by a taxpayer individually or through
agents or other representatives) constitute a business activity of the taxpayer
in whole or in part.
   (b)   Where the gross monthly rental of any and all real properties,
regardless of number and value, aggregates in excess of $250 per month, it
shall be prima facie evidence that the rental, ownership, management or
operation of such properties is a business activity of such taxpayer, and the
net income of such rental property shall be subject to tax; provided that in
the case of commercial property, the owner shall be considered engaged in a
business activity when the rental is based on a fixed or fluctuating percentage
of gross, or net sales, receipts or profits of the lessee, whether or not such
rental exceeds $250 per month; provided further that in the case of farm
property, the owner shall be considered engaged in a business activity when he
or she shares in crops or when the rental is based on a percentage of the gross
or net receipts derived from the farm, whether or not the gross income exceeds
$250 per month; and provided further that the person who operates a licensed
rooming house shall be considered in business whether or not the gross income
exceeds $250 per month.
   (c)   The taxpayers subject to the provisions of this section shall submit
or cause to be submitted to the Administrator a list of names, Social Security
account numbers, federal employer’s identification numbers, and addresses of
all persons, firms, corporations or other entities occupying, leasing, renting
or otherwise using any premises belonging to the taxpayer within this
municipality in such a manner as to produce economic benefit to the taxpayer,
whether or not such benefit is collected as “rent” and whether or not such
benefit results in a profit or loss. The required list shall be prepared as of
December 31 of each year and submitted on or before January 31 of the following
year and at such other times as may be prescribed by the Administrator.
(Ord. 6695, passed 2-18-1976)
§ 191.0705  OPERATING LOSS CARRY-FORWARD.
   (a)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained in any taxable year
subsequent to January 1, 1967, allocable to the city may be applied against the
portion of the profit of succeeding tax years allocable to the city until
exhausted, but in no event for more than three taxable years immediately
following the year in which the loss occurred. No portion of a net operating
loss shall be carried back against net profits of any prior year.
   (b)   The portion of net operating loss sustained shall be allocated to the
city in the same manner as provided herein for allocating net profits to the
city.
   (c)   The Administrator shall provide by rules and regulations the manner in
which such net operating loss carry-forward shall be determined.
(Ord. 148-04, passed 12-21-2004)
CONTRACTORS/SUBCONTRACTORS
§ 191.0706  REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR.
   (a)   Any contractor and/or subcontractor applying for a permit to do
building, reconstruction, construction or remodeling shall, when applying for
the building permit, register their name, federal employer’s identification
number, place of business and person or persons to whom correspondence shall be
directed with the Administrator.
   (b)   The Administrator shall note upon the building contractor’s and/or
subcontractor’s application for a building permit that such contractor and/or
subcontractor have registered with the city’s Tax Department in accordance with
rules and regulations of the city’s Tax Department and transmit such
information that the registration has been completed to the Building
Department.
(Ord. 6658, passed 11-26-1974)
§ 191.0706.01  CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall perform any
construction work in the city unless they possess an uncancelled certificate of
tax registration issued by the city’s Tax Department.
   (b)   A person, firm, partnership or corporation performing or engaged in
any construction work in the city shall file an application with the city’s Tax
Department and comply with all requirements with respect to maintaining the
certificate of tax registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   The city’s Tax Department shall maintain a list, and provide quarterly
updates to the city’s Building Department, of all uncancelled certificate of
tax registration holders.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.02  APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   A person, firm, partnership or corporation that will perform construction
work in the city shall file annually with the city’s Tax Department an
application in the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, verified by the
oath of the principle officer (i.e., notarized), setting forth information
which includes, but is not limited to:
   (a)   The actual and exact name, as well as the tax payer identification
number (Fed ID or SS#) under which the person, firm, partnership or corporation
will perform construction work;
   (b)   The address and telephone number for the principal place of business
for the person, firm, partnership or corporation that will perform the
construction work;
   (c)   Proof that the person, firm, partnership or corporation that will
perform construction work is current in its obligation to file tax returns and
pay taxes to the city;
   (d)   Proof of current coverage under the state’s workers’ compensation and
unemployment compensation at the time of registration and/or re-registration;
   (e)   Proof of the appointment, as well as the complete name and address of
the statutory or designated agent for the entity that will perform construction
work; and
   (f)   The irrevocable consent of such person, firm, partnership or
corporation that will perform construction work.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.03  REGISTRATION DENIAL; RENEWAL.
   (a)   A certificate of tax registration shall be denied to any person, firm,
partnership or corporation that will perform construction work in the city for:
      (1)   Failure to file tax returns;
      (2)   Failure to be current in the obligation to file tax returns;
      (3)   Failure to pay taxes;
      (4)   Failure to be current in the obligation to pay taxes; or
      (5)   For good cause articulated by the Tax Administrator for the city.
   (b)   A certificate of tax registration shall remain valid and is renewable
annually unless cancelled by the city’s Department of Taxation for any of the
grounds for denial stated in division (a) above that extends or continues
beyond a 12-month period.
   (c)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation shall re-register with
the city’s Tax Department if their certificate of tax registration is cancelled
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.04  REGISTRATION PRE-REQUISITE FOR OTHER MATTERS.
   A person, firm, partnership or corporation shall possess and present to the
city’s Building Department, an uncancelled certificate of tax registration in
order to:
   (a)   Obtain the permit required by §§
1301.12 and
1349.02 of the Building Code;
   (b)   Register as a contractor pursuant to
Chapter 1381 and §
1349.03 of the Building Code; or
   (c)   Renew registration as a contractor.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   Section
191.0706 does not apply to a homeowner obtaining a permit for his or her
principal residence.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.06  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION  includes any construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
remodeling, improvement, enlargement, alteration, repair, painting, decorating
or landscaping.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
§ 191.0706.07  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who violates any
provision of §§
191.0706 to
191.0706.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day the
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (b)   The city’s Department of Taxation and/or Building Department may
provide written notice ordering any person, firm, partnership or corporation in
noncompliance with any provision of this chapter, to cease and desist
construction until that person, firm, partnership or corporation complies with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 86-91, passed 10-15-1991)
EXEMPTIONS
§ 191.0901  SOURCES OF INCOME NOT TAXED.
   The tax provided for herein shall not be levied on the following:
   (a)   Pay or allowance of active members of the Armed Forces of the United
States or the income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific, literary
or educational institutions to the extent that such income is derived from tax
exempt real estate, tax exempt tangible or intangible property or tax exempt
activities;
   (b)   Poor relief, unemployment insurance benefits, old age pensions or
similar payments, including disability benefits received from local, state or
federal governments or charitable, religious or educational organizations;
   (c)   Proceeds of insurance paid by reason of the death of the insured,
pensions, disability benefits, annuities or gratuities not in the nature of
compensation for services rendered from whatever source derived;
   (d)   Receipts from seasonal or casual entertainment, amusements, sports
events and health and welfare activities when any such are conducted by bona
fide charitable, religious or educational organizations and associations;
   (e)   Alimony received;
   (f)   Personal earnings of any natural person under 18 years of age;
   (g)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property by way
of insurance or otherwise;
   (h)   Interest, dividends and other revenue from intangible property;
   (i)   Gains from involuntary conversion, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations, items of income already taxed by the state
from which the city is specifically prohibited from taxing and income of a
decedent’s estate during the period of administration (except such income from
the operation of a business);
   (j)   Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net profits,
the taxation of which is prohibited by the United States Constitution or any
act of Congress limiting the power of the state or their political subdivisions
to impose net income taxes on income derived from interstate commerce; or
   (k)   Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net profits,
the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution of the state or any act
of the state’s General Assembly limiting the power of the city to impose net
income taxes.
(Ord. 93-92, passed 9-29-1992)
RETURNS
§ 191.1101  WHEN RETURN REQUIRED TO BE MADE.
   Each taxpayer shall make and file a return on or before April 15 on all
taxable income earned or received in the previous taxable year. When the return
is made for a fiscal year or other period different from the calendar year, the
return shall be filed within four months from the end of such fiscal year or
period. A resident shall not be obligated to make and file a return if all
income derived in the taxable year is derived from sources of income that are
not taxed pursuant to §
191.0901.
(Ord. 39-06, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 191.1102  FORM AND CONTENTS OF RETURN.
   The return shall be filed with the Administrator on a form or forms
furnished by or obtainable upon request from such Administrator, setting forth:
   (a)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation earned and gross income from business, profession or other
activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross
income earned during the preceding year and subject to said tax;
   (b)   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and
   (c)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Administrator may require.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1103  EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING RETURNS.
   The Administrator may extend the time for filing of the annual return upon
the request of the taxpayer for a period of not to exceed six months, or one
month beyond any extension requested of or granted by the Internal Revenue
Service for the filing of the Federal income tax return. The Administrator may
require a tentative return, accompanied by payment of the amount of tax shown
to be due thereon by the date the return is normally due. No penalty or
interest shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is filed and the
final tax paid within the period as extended.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1104  CONSOLIDATED RETURNS.
   (a)   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted or required in
accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Administrator.
   (b)   In the case of a corporation that carried on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates or some other method, or in case any person operates
a division, branch, factory, office, laboratory or activity within the city
constituting a portion only of its total business, the Administrator shall
require such additional information as he or she may deem necessary to
ascertain whether net profits are properly allocated to the city. If the
Administrator finds that net profits are not properly allocated to the city by
reason of transactions with stockholders or with other corporations related by
stock ownership, interlocking directorates or transactions with such division,
branch, factory, office, laboratory or activity or by some other method, he or
she shall make such allocation as he or she deems appropriate to produce a fair
and proper allocation of net profits to the city.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1105  AMENDED RETURNS.
   (a)   Where necessary, an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements, limitations or both contained in §§
191.1701, 191.1702, 191.1703 and 191.1902. Such amended returns shall be on a
form obtainable on request from the Administrator. A taxpayer may not change
the method of accounting or apportionment of net profits after the due date for
filing the original return.
   (b)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s city tax liability, such taxpayer shall make
and file an amended city return showing income subject to the city tax based
upon such final determination of federal tax liability, and pay any additional
tax shown due thereon or make claim for refund of any overpayment.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
PAYMENT OF TAX
§ 191.1301  PAYMENT OF TAX ON FILING OF RETURN.
   (a)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the Administrator the amount of taxes shown as due thereon; provided,
however, that:
      (1)   Where any portion of the tax so due shall have been deducted at the
source pursuant to the provisions of §
191.1302 hereof;
      (2)   Where any portion of such tax shall have been paid by the taxpayer
pursuant to the provisions of §
191.1303 hereof; or
      (3)   Where an income tax has been paid on the same income to another
municipality, credit for the amount so deducted or paid, or credit to the
extent provided for in §
191.1902, shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the
balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing the return.
   (b)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the city is
entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such overpayment applied
against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his or her election,
indicated on the return, such overpayment (or part thereof) shall be refunded,
provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $1 shall be collected
or refunded.
(Ord. 6321, passed 12-14-1971)
§ 191.1302  COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (a)   In accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the
Administrator, each employer within or doing business within the city shall
deduct at the time of the payment of such salary, wage, commission or other
compensation the amount of tax imposed by §
191.0501 of the gross salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation due by
such employer to such employee and shall on or before the last day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter, make a return and pay to the
Administrator the amount of taxes so deducted subject to the provision of
divisions (c), (d) and (e) below. Such returns shall be on a form or forms
prescribed by or acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to the
rules and regulations prescribed therefor by the Administrator. Such employer
shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be deducted and
withheld, whether or not such taxes have in fact been withheld.
   (b)   Such employer in collecting such tax shall be deemed to hold the same,
until payment is made by such employer to the city, as a trustee for the
benefit of the city, and any such tax collected by such employer from his or
her employees shall, until the same is paid to the city, be deemed a trust fund
in the hands of such employer.
   (c)   Such employer who deducts the tax in the amount of $100 or more in the
first or second month of a calendar quarter shall, on or before the twentieth
day of the following month, pay to the Administrator the amount of taxes so
deducted.
   (d)   Such employer who makes such payments on a monthly basis for the first
two months of a calendar quarter shall pay such tax deducted for the third
month of a calendar quarter at the regular time for filing the employer’s
quarterly return of income tax withheld.
   (e)   Such payments shall be on a form or forms furnished by or obtainable
upon request from the Administrator, setting forth the amount of tax deducted
for the month. A receipted copy of such form shall be returned to the employer
to be attached to and filed with the employer’s quarterly return of income tax
withheld.
   (f)   No person shall be required to withhold the tax on wages or other
compensation paid domestic servants employed by him or her exclusively in or
about such person’s residence, even though such residence is in the city, but
such employee shall be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966; Ord. 5891, passed 4-23-1968; Ord. 5895, passed
6-18-1968)
§ 191.1303  DECLARATION OF INCOME.
   Except as provided in this section, every person shall file a declaration
setting forth taxable income, including distributive shares of net profits of
unincorporated business entities, estimated to be earned during the current tax
year, together with the estimated tax due thereon, less the amount withheld
within the city, and less the tax credit allowed in §
191.1902 hereof, unless the entire taxable income is subject to withholding
within the city, pursuant to §
191.1302 hereof. If the estimated tax for the current year, less the tax to be
withheld and less such tax credit, amounts to not more than $10, no declaration
or payment of estimated tax is required.
(Ord. 6695, passed 2-18-1975)
§ 191.1304  FILING OF DECLARATION.
   (a)   The declaration required by §
191.1303 shall be filed on or before April 30 of each year during the effective
period set forth in §
191.0502 or within four months of the date the taxpayer becomes subject to tax
for the first time.
   (b)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the beginning of each fiscal year or
period.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1305  FORM OF DECLARATION.
   (a)   The declaration required by §
191.1303 shall be filed upon a form furnished by or obtainable from the
Administrator. As provided in §
191.1303 hereof, credit shall be taken for the city tax to be withheld from any
portion of such income and credit shall be taken for tax to be paid or withheld
and remitted to another taxing municipality, in accordance with the provisions
of §
191.1902 hereof.
   (b)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment thereof may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment date as
provided for herein.
(Ord. 6321, passed 12-14-1971)
§ 191.1306  PAYMENT TO ACCOMPANY DECLARATION.
   Such declaration of estimated tax to be paid to the city shall be
accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated annual tax and
at least a similar amount shall be paid on or before the last day of the
seventh, tenth and twelfth months after the beginning of the taxable year.
Provided, however, that in case an amended declaration has been filed, the
unpaid balance shown due thereon shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates
(Ord. 6695, passed 2-18-1975)
§ 191.1307  ANNUAL RETURN.
   (a)   On or before the last day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which such declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due the city shall be paid
therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
191.1301.
   (b)   Those taxpayers who are members of the armed forces serving in a war
zone shall be afforded an extension for a period of 180 days to file the annual
municipal tax return after the taxpayer is released from the war zone upon
presentation of reliable proof of such military service.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966; Ord. 11-91, passed 2-5-1991)
INTEREST AND PENALTIES
§ 191.1501  INTEREST ON UNPAID TAX.
   All taxes imposed and all moneys withheld or required to be withheld by
employers under the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after they
become due shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 5891, passed 4-23-1968)
§ 191.1502  PENALTIES ON UNPAID TAX; PENALTIES ON FAILURE TO FILE RETURN.
   In addition to interest as provided in §
191.1501, penalties are hereby imposed and shall be assessed by the
Administrator as follows:
   (a)   For failure to pay taxes due, other than taxes withheld: 10% per annum
or a fraction thereof, but not less than $25;
   (b)   For failure to make and file any return as required by §
191.1101: $25;
   (c)   For failure to make and file any declaration as required by §
191.1303: $25; and
   (d)   For failure to remit taxes withheld from employees: 10% per month or
fraction thereof, but the accumulated penalty shall not exceed 50% upon any
unpaid amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, in no event shall the
accumulated penalty be less than $25.
(Ord. 7950, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 191.1503  EXCEPTIONS.
   A penalty shall not be assessed on an additional tax assessment made by the
Administrator when a return has been filed in good faith and the tax paid
thereon within the time prescribed by the Administrator, and provided further,
that in the absence of fraud, neither penalty nor interest shall be assessed on
any additional tax assessment resulting from a federal audit, providing an
amended return is filed and the additional tax is paid within three months
after a final determination of the federal tax liability.
§ 191.1504  ABATEMENT OF INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   Upon recommendation of the Administrator, the Board of Review may abate
penalty or interest, or both, or upon an appeal from the refusal of the
Administrator to recommend abatement of penalty and interest, the Board may
nevertheless abate penalty or interest, or both, for good cause shown.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1505  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall:
   (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required by
this chapter;
   (b)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
   (c)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest imposed
by this chapter;
   (d)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her employees
or remit such withholding to the Administrator; or
   (e)   Refuse to permit the Administrator or any duly authorized agent or
employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and federal income tax
returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
   (f)   Fail to appear before the Administrator and to produce his or her
books, records, papers or federal income tax returns relating to the income or
net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Administrator;
   (g)   Refuse to disclose to the Administrator any information with respect
to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
   (h)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Administrator authorized hereby;
   (i)   Give to an employer false information as to his or her true name,
correct Social Security number and residence address, or fail to promptly
notify an employer of any change in residence address and date thereof;
   (j)   Fail to use ordinary diligence in maintaining proper records of
employees’ residence addresses, total wages paid and city tax withheld, or
knowingly give the Administrator false information; or
   (k)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole or
any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both, for each offense.
§ 191.1506  LIMITATION ON PROSECUTION.
   All prosecutions under this subchapter must be commenced within the time
specified in Ohio R.C. 718.06.
§ 191.1507  FAILURE TO PROCURE FORMS NOT EXCUSE.
   The failure of any employer or person to receive or procure a return,
declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or her from making any
information return, return or declaration, from filing such form, or from
paying the tax.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS
§ 191.1701  UNPAID TAXES RECOVERABLE AS OTHER DEBTS.
   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together with any
interest and penalties thereon, by suit, as other debts of like amount are
recoverable. Except in the case of fraud, or omission of a substantial portion
of income subject to this tax or of failure to file a return, an additional
assessment shall not be made after three years from the time the return was due
or filed, whichever is later, provided, however, in those cases in which a
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the
federal statute of limitation, the period within which an additional assessment
may be made by the Administrator shall be one year from the time of the final
determination of the federal tax liability. (Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.1702  REFUND OF TAXES ERRONEOUSLY PAID.
   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for refund is
made within the time specified in Ohio R.C. 718.06.
§ 191.1703  AMOUNTS OF LESS THAN ONE DOLLAR.
   Amounts of less than $1 shall not be collected or refunded.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
TAXPAYER RELIEF AND RECIPROCITY PROVISIONS
§ 191.1902  TAX CREDIT.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 191.1902 was repealed by Ordinance 7949, passed
September 6, 1988)
DISBURSEMENT OF RECEIPTS OF TAX COLLECTION
§ 191.2101  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be disbursed
in the following manner.
   (a)   First, such part thereof as shall be necessary to defray all expenses
of collecting the tax and of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid.
   (b)   The balance remaining after payment of the expenses referred to in
division (a) above shall be deposited in the General Fund for municipal
purposes.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 191.2301  DUTY TO RECEIVE TAX IMPOSED.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to receive the tax imposed by this
chapter in the manner prescribed herein from the taxpayers, to keep an accurate
record thereof and to report all moneys so received.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2302  DUTY TO ENFORCE COLLECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to enforce payment of all taxes
owing to the city, to keep accurate records for a minimum of five years showing
the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration and make any
return, or both, including taxes withheld, and to show the dates and amounts of
payments thereof.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2303  AUTHORITY TO MAKE AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   The Administrator is hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of the Board,
to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and regulations relating to any
matter or thing pertaining to the collection of taxes and the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including provisions for the
re-examination and correction of returns.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2304  AUTHORITY TO ARRANGE INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (a)   The Administrator is authorized to arrange for the payment of unpaid
taxes, interest and penalties on a schedule of installment payments, when the
taxpayer has proved to the Administrator that, due to certain hardship
conditions, he or she is unable to pay the full amount of the tax due. Such
authorization shall not be granted until proper returns are filed by the
taxpayer for all amounts owed by him or her under this chapter.
   (b)   Failure to make any deferred payment when due, shall cause the total
unpaid amount, including penalty and interest, to become payable on demand and
the provisions of §§
191.1701 and
191.1505 shall apply.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2305  AUTHORITY TO DETERMINE AMOUNT OF TAX DUE.
   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has filed a
return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the Administrator may
determine the amount of tax appearing to be due the city from the taxpayer and
shall send to such taxpayer a written statement snowing the amount of tax so
determined, together with interest and penalties thereon, if any.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2306  AUTHORITY TO MAKE INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Administrator, or any authorized employee, is hereby authorized to
examine the books, papers, records and federal income tax returns of any
employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or whom the Administrator
believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter, for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, as to
ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Every such employer, supposed
employer, taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby directed and required to
furnish upon written request by the Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities and opportunity for making
such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2307  AUTHORITY TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF RECORDS.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person presumed to have
knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her and may examine such person,
under oath, concerning any income which was or should have been returned for
taxation or any transaction tending to affect such income, and for this purpose
may compel the production of books, papers, records and federal income tax
returns and the attendance of all persons before him or her, whether as parties
or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such persons have knowledge of such
income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2308  REFUSAL TO PRODUCE RECORDS.
   The refusal to produce books, papers, records and federal income tax
returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any employer or
persons subject or presumed to be subject to the tax or by any officer, agent
or employee of a person subject to the tax or required to withhold tax or the
failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this chapter or with an
order or subpoena of the Administrator authorized hereby shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter, punishable as provided in §
191.1505.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2309  CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF INFORMATION; DISCLOSURE OF RETURNS AND
RETURN INFORMATION.
   (a)   Any information gained as the result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes or except in accordance with proper
judicial order.
   (b)   The Administrator is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with
the United States Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, an Internal
Revenue Service District Director, the state’s Tax Commissioner, and the heads
of other state and local taxing authorities to provide the disclosure and
exchange by the Administrator and each of the aforementioned officials, for tax
collection purposes, of returns or return information under jurisdiction of
such official. The Administrator is further hereby authorized to pay the costs
of services, materials or information rendered.
   (c)   Any person divulging such information in violation of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine or penalty of not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more
than six months, or both. Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense.
   (d)   In addition to the above penalty, any employee of the city who
violates the provisions of this section relative to the disclosures of
confidential information shall be guilty of an offense punishable by immediate
dismissal.
(Ord. 45-92, passed 7-21-1992)
§ 191.2310  TAXPAYER REQUIRED TO RETAIN RECORDS.
   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his or her tax
liability for a period of five years from the date his or her return is filed
or the withholding taxes are paid.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2311  AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR CENTRAL COLLECTION FACILITIES.
   The city having already authorized the Mayor to enter into an agreement for
the establishment of a Regional Council of Governments pursuant to Ord. 6624,
in which Council has organized a municipal tax collection agency known as
Regional Income Tax Agency, the Board of Trustees of such Regional Income Tax
Agency is authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter
as the agent of the city and the duties and authority of the Administrator
hereunder may be performed by the Board of Trustees of such agency through the
Administrator of such agency. Provided, however, the Administrator of such
agency shall have no authority to abate penalties and interest provided for in
§§
191.1501 and
191.1502.
(Ord. 6695, passed 2-18-1975)
§ 191.2312  ASSIGNMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES.
   In the event the Mayor, on behalf of the city, enters into an agreement with
any other municipal corporation to act as agent of the city for the purpose of
administering the income tax laws of the city and of providing a central
facility for the collection of the income tax, as provided in §
191.2311, then all or a part of the duties and authority of the Administrator
may be assigned by such agreement to such other municipal corporation.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
BOARD OF TAX APPEALS
§ 191.2501  BOARD OF TAX APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   A Board of Tax Appeals, consisting of two citizens appointed by the Mayor,
and the Chairperson of the Finance Committee of Council is hereby created. The
Board shall select, each year for a one-year term, one of its members to serve
as Chairperson and one to serve as Secretary. A majority of the members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules
in accordance with R.C. § 718.11 and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Any hearing by the Board may be conducted privately and the provisions of §
191.2309 with reference to the confidential character of information required
to be disclosed by this chapter shall apply to such matters as may be heard
before the Board of Tax Appeals.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 191.2502  DUTY TO APPROVE REGULATIONS AND TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All rules and regulations and amendments or changes thereto, which are
adopted by the Administrator under the authority conferred by this chapter,
must be approved by the Board of Tax Appeals before the same become effective.
The Board shall hear and pass on appeals from any ruling or decision of the
Administrator, and, at the request of the taxpayer or Administrator, is
empowered to substitute alternate methods of allocation.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 191.2503  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Administrator
which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter may appeal
therefrom to the Board of Tax Appeals within 30 days from the announcement of
such ruling or decision by the Administrator, and the Board shall, on hearing,
have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any such ruling or decision, or
any part thereof.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
BOARD OF ADJUDICATION
§ 191.2504  BOARD OF ADJUDICATION ESTABLISHED.
   A Board of Adjudication, consisting of the Mayor, or a person designated by
him or her, the Director of Law, or an Assistant Director of Law designated by
him or her, the Director of Finance or a person in the Finance Department
designated by the Director of Finance and two citizens appointed by Council is
hereby created. The Board shall select, each year for a one-year term, one of
its members to serve as Chairperson and one to serve as Secretary. A majority
of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall adopt
its own procedural rules in accordance with R.C. § 718.11 and shall keep a
record of its transactions. Any hearing by the Board may be conducted privately
and the provisions of §
191.2309, with reference to the confidential character of information required
to be disclosed by this chapter, shall apply to such matters as may be heard
before the Board of Adjudication.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 191.2505  DUTY TO HEAR APPEALS.
   The Board shall hear and pass on appeals from any ruling or decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals, and, at the request of the taxpayer or Board of Tax
Appeals, is empowered to substitute alternate methods of allocation.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 191.2506  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Board of Tax
Appeals which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter may appeal
therefrom to the Board of Adjudication within 30 days from the announcement of
such ruling or decision by the Board of Tax Appeals, and the Board shall, on
hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any such ruling or
decision, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 186-00, passed 12-19-2000)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 191.2701  DECLARATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax against
any individual or any of the several groups specified herein, is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of the Commission of the city that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence,
clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 191.2702  COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of such taxes levied in the aforesaid period are fully paid
and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of such taxes or for
the punishment of violations of this chapter shall have been fully terminated,
subject to the limitations contained in §§
191.1701,
191.1702,
191.1703,
191.1505,
191.1506 and
191.1507.
   (b)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
191.1101 and
191.1302 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 5783, passed 12-13-1966)
CHAPTER 192:  INCOME TAX BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2016
Section
General Provisions
192.001   Authority to levy tax; purpose of tax
192.002   Definitions
192.003   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
192.004   Estimated taxes
192.005   Rounding of amounts
192.006   Requests for refunds
192.007   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
192.008   Amended returns
192.009   Limitations
192.010   Audits
192.011   Service of assessment
192.012   Administration of claims
192.013   Tax information confidential
192.014   Fraud
192.015   Interest and penalties
192.016   Request for opinion of Tax Administrator
192.017   Board of Tax Review
192.018   Authority to create rules and regulations
192.019   Rental and leased property
192.020   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
192.021   Adoption of RITA rules and regulations
Imposition of Tax
192.035   Generally
192.036   Individuals
192.037   Refundable credit for nonqualified deferred compensation plan
192.038   Domicile
192.039   Businesses
Collection at Source
192.050   Withholding provisions
192.051   Occasional entrant; withholding
Annual Return; Filing
192.060   Generally
192.061   Filing via Ohio Business Gateway
192.062   Extension for service in or for the Armed Forces
192.063   Consolidated municipal income tax return
Authority of Tax Administrator; Verification of Information
192.075   Authority
192.076   Verification of accuracy of returns and determination of liability
192.077   Identification information
 
192.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 192.001  AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSE OF TAX.
   (a)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements, the City of East Cleveland, Ohio (“City”)
hereby levies an annual municipal income tax on income, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation, and on net profits as provided in this
chapter.
   (b)   (1)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 2%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving income in the
city. The tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided in §
192.002 of this chapter and other sections as they may apply.
      (2)   An amount sufficient to pay the accrued liability for the Police
and Fire Disability and Pension Fund, beginning with the year 1970 and not to
exceed 10% of the moneys collected from the municipal income tax, shall be
directly allocated to the accrued liability for such Fund. The purpose of any
income tax levied in excess of 1%, authorized by the electors of the city,
shall be to provide funds for general municipal functions.
(Approved by voters 8-3-1982)
   (c)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax is
levied in accordance with, and is intended to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. Ordinance 52-15, effective
January 1,2016 apply to tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
Ordinance 52-15 does not repeal the existing sections of Chapter 191 for any
tax year beginning on or before December 31, 2015, but rather amends this
chapter effective January 1, 2016. For tax years beginning on or before
December 31, 2015, the city shall continue to administer, audit and enforce the
income tax of the city under this chapter as those ordinances and resolutions
existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.002  DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (b)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (c)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. 
      (1)   For a person required to file as a C corporation, or for a person
that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation under subsection D. of the
definition of NET PROFIT,  means a C corporation’s federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under the
Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         A.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         B.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
subsection A. of this division (1), but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in Section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         C.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in Section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         D.   1.   Except as provided in subsection 2. below, deduct income and
gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and gain
directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in Section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Subsection 1. above does not apply to the extent the income or
gain is income or gain described in Section 1245 or 1250 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         E.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         F.   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         G.   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         H.   1.   Except as limited by subsections 2., 3., and 4. below,
deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable year
beginning on or after January 1, 2017.  The amount of such net operating loss
shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized;
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by this subsection
H. to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by subsection H.1. above.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by subsection 1. above.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
this subsection H.
            5.   Nothing in subsection H.3.a. above precludes a person from
carrying forward, use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year
beginning ate 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully
utilized by operation of subsection H.3.a. above. To the extent that an amount
of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years
by operation of subsection H.3.a. above is carried forward for use with respect
to a return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022,
the limitation described in subsection H.3.a. above shall apply to the amount
carried forward.
         I.   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
192.063(d)(3)B.; and
         J.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
192.063(d)(3)B.
      (2)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made an election described in division (c)(48)B. of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (c)(24)D. of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under Section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
      (3)   Nothing in definition shall be construed as allowing the taxpayer
to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as allowing
any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of federal
self-employment tax.
   ASSESSMENT. 
      (1)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation that
commences the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to the Board of Tax
Review pursuant to §
192.017 of this chapter, and has “ ASSESSMENT ” written in all capital letters
at the top of such finding.
      (2)   ASSESSMENT does not include a notice denying a request for refund
issued under §
192.006(c)(3) of this chapter, a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of
current or past-due balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax
Administrator’s request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator’s other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by subsection (1) above.
   AUDIT.   The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
   BOARD OF TAX REVIEW, BOARD OF REVIEW, BOARD OF TAX APPEALS or other named
local board constituted to hear appeals of municipal income tax matters, means
the entity created under §
192.017 of this chapter.
   CALENDAR QUARTER.   The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY . Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE and similar
terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. § 5703.056.
   DISREGARDED ENTITY.   A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   DOMICILE.   The true, fixed, and permanent home of a taxpayer and to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have more than
one residence but not more than one DOMICILE.
   EMPLOYEE.   An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes.
   EMPLOYER.   A person that is an employer for federal income tax purposes.
   EXEMPT INCOME.   Includes all of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
National Guard of any state;
      (2)   Intangible income;
      (3)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in subsection (3) if this definition,
“unemployment compensation” does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in Section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
      (5)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
      (6)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations;
      (7)   Alimony and child support received;
      (8)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or compensation from punitive damages;
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This subsection (9) does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under Section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
definition of QUALIFYING WAGES ;
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
      (14)   An S corporation shareholder’s share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net
earnings from self-employment as defined in Section 1402(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
      (15)   All of the income of individuals under 18 years of age;
      (16)   A.   Except as provided in subsections (16)B., C. and D. below,
qualifying wages described in §
192.051(a)(2) or (5) of this chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are not
subject to withholding for city under either of those divisions;
         B.   The exemption provided in subsection (16)A. above does not apply
with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee resided at the
time the employee earned the qualifying wages;
         C.   The exemption provided in subsection (16)A. above does not apply
to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
192.051(a)(4)B. of this chapter; and
         D.   The exemption provided in subsection (16)A. above does not apply
to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            1.   For qualifying wages described in §
192.051(a)(2) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s
principal place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
192.051(a)(5) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s
fixed location is located; and
            2.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
subsection (16)D.1. above on the basis of the employee not performing services
in that municipal corporation.
      (17)   A.   Except as provided in subsections B. or C. below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident individual for
personal services performed in city on not more than 20 days in a taxable year;
         B.   The exemption provided in subsection A. above does not apply
under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the municipal
corporation; or
            2.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of this subsection,
“professional athlete,” “professional entertainer” and “public figure” have the
same meanings as in §
192.051(a) of this chapter.
         C.   Compensation to which this definition applies shall be treated as
earned or received at the individual’s base of operation, if the individual
does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated as earned
or received where the individual is domiciled; and
         D.   For purposes of this definition, “base of operation” means the
location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront, or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (18)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
      (19)   A.   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the
constitution or laws of the United States.
         B.   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-through entity to
the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate share of that item of
the entity’s income.
   FORM 2106 .  The Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GENERIC FORM.   An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.   The total revenue derived from sales, work done, or
service rendered.
   INCOME .
      (1)   A.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident except as provided in subsection (4) of the definition
of NET PROFIT .
         B.   For the purposes of subsection (1)A. above:
            1.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the taxable
year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss generated
in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership interest
in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that taxable year
and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit of the
resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit attributable to
the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity until fully
utilized, subject to subsection (1)D. below; and
            2.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
         C.   Subsection (1)B. above does not apply with respect to any net
profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ shares of net profits from S corporations are
subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in subsection (14) of
the definition of EXEMPT INCOME or this definition; and
         D.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass- through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer.
      (4)   For lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME .  Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.   Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5747.01.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY.   A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.   Includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§ 715.691
, 715.70 , 715.71, or 715.74.
   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   A.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to city under §§
192.035 through
192.039, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for city.
         B.   1.   For an individual who is a resident of city, income reduced
by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as
provided in subsection (2) below, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipal
corporation.
            2.   For an individual who is a nonresident of city, income reduced
by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under §§
192.035 through
192.039, then reduced as provided in subsection (2) below, and further reduced
by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
city.
      (2)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in subsection B.1. above or
this subsection, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses
reported on the individual’s Form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal
income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by
Section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which
the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed
for federal income tax purposes, but only to the extent the expenses do not
relate to exempt income. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is
not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the
expenses are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that
nonresident municipal corporation and are not related to exempt income.
   MUNICIPALITY.   The City of East Cleveland, Ohio.
   NET OPERATING LOSS.   A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
   NET PROFIT.
      (1)   For a person other than an individual means adjusted federal
taxable income.
      (2)   For a person who is an individual means the individual’s net profit
required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or schedule F reduced by any
net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes of this subsection (2),
the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and deducted in the
same manner as provided in subsection (1) of the definition of ADJUSTED FEDERAL
TAX INCOME .
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding subsection
(1) above, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as against
that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net profit of the
owner of the disregarded entity.
      (4)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership for
federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits by
the city, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the city. The election
shall be made on the annual return for the city. The city will treat the
publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if the election is so made.
   NONRESIDENT.   An individual that is not a resident.
   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY.   The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
   OTHER PAYER .  Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER  includes casino operators and
video lottery terminal sales agents.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.   A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   PENSION .  Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   PERSON.   Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
   POSTAL SERVICE.   The United States Postal Service.
   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK and similar terms include the date recorded
and marked in the manner described in R.C. § 5703.056(B)(3).
   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. 
      (1)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before
January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or
ordinance of the city that was adopted by the city before January 1, 2016, to
be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in the
city in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP.   Any partnership, an interest in which is
regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
   QUALIFYING WAGES.   Wages, as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         A.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in Section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         B.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment on
account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer; and
         C.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         A.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
         B.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. This subsection B. applies only to those amounts
constituting ordinary income;
         C.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
subsection C. applies only to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
         D.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in Section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
         E.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income for
federal tax purposes in accordance with Section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
         F.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            1.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under Section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            4.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either this subsection (2) or R.C. § 718.03, as that
section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General
Assembly, March 23, 2015.
   RELATED ENTITY.
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s family
enumerated in Section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially,
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under subsection (4) below, provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; and
      (4)   The attribution rules described in Section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in subsections (1) through (3) above have been met.
   RELATED MEMBER.  A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in Section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or
from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with Section
1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining
whether a person is a related member under this definition, 20% shall be
substituted for 5% wherever 5% appears in Section 1563(e) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   RESIDENT.   An individual who is domiciled in the municipal corporation as
determined under §
192.038 of this chapter.
   S CORPORATION.   A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C.   The Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E.   The Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F.   The Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY.   A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
   SMALL EMPLOYER.   Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, “total
revenue” means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to,
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.   The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by the city in accordance with this
chapter.
   TAX RETURN PREPARER.   Any individual described in Section 7701(a)(36) of
the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
   TAXABLE YEAR.   The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for the
taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXPAYER. 
      (1)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in subsection (2)A. below, a disregarded
entity.
      (2)   A.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
            2.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
            3.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as that section existed on December 31, 2004;
            4.   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member; and
            5.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election.
         B.   For purposes of subsection (2)A.5. above, a municipal corporation
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation for
its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.   The rights provided to taxpayers
in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011 and
5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL.   Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SATES AGENT.   A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.003  CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   No credit is provided to residents for tax paid to other municipalities.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.004  ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES.   The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to
be the taxpayer’s tax liability for the city’s income tax for the current
taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY.  The total taxes due to the city for the taxable year,
after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and after applying
any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from another taxable
year.
   (b)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         A.   Taxes withheld from the city from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the city in equal amounts on each payment date unless the
taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld, in
which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the amounts
were actually withheld.
         B.   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent taxable
year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in
which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic funds
transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division, “date of
the postmark” means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover, the
earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
192.060(g) of this chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (c)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the city, including
the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and withholding on or before
the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         A.   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         B.   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         C.   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
or
         D.   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §§
192.060 through
192.063 of this chapter.
   (d)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
192.015 of this chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (e) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         B.   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         C.   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         D.   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (e)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (d) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the city under §§
192.060 through
192.063 of this chapter for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the city but was not
domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that includes
the first day of the taxable year.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.005  ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round amounts
entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the
document.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.006  REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “withholding tax” has the same meaning as in
§
192.015 of this chapter.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax
levied by the city:
      (1)   Overpayments of $10 or more; or
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested is $10 or more.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor’s claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount for payment. Except
as provided in subsection (c)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator shall
issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or
partially denied. The assessment shall state the amount of the refund that was
denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for appealing the
assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
192.017 of this section.
   (d)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (c) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; or
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (e)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
192.015(a)(4) of this chapter.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.007  SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR
REFUND.
   (a)   Income tax that has been deposited with the city, but should have been
deposited with another municipality, is allowable by the city as a refund but
is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (b)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with the city is subject to recovery by the city. If city’s
tax on that income is imposed after the time period allowed for a refund of the
tax or withholding paid to the other municipality, the city shall allow a
nonrefundable credit against the tax or withholding city claims is due with
respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or withholding paid to the
first municipality with respect to such income or wages.
   (c)   If the city’s tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit shall be calculated using the
city’s tax rate. However, if the city’s tax rate is greater than the tax rate
in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the nonrefundable credit is
to be paid to the city, along with any penalty and interest that accrued during
the period of nonpayment.
   (d)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.008  AMENDED RETURNS.
   (a)   (1)   If a taxpayer’s tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
city changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state
income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the city. The
amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax Administrator.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (b)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due, together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return only:
         A.   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations, and attachments were reopened; or
         B.   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
192.009 of this chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened; such as, the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts.
   (c)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (d) of this
section for filing the amended return, even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be
paid by the city. A request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
192.006 of this chapter.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations, and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations, and attachments.
   (d)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s city’s tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended city return showing income subject to the city
income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state tax
liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional city income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is less than $10.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.009  LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   A.   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         B.   The time limit described in division (a)(1)A. of this section may
be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent
of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension.
Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (c) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, “qualifying deferral period” means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         A.   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in §
192.017 of this chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding, or holding by any administrative body or court that the
Board of Tax Review did not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the
assessment or any part of that assessment.
         B.   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date oh which the
final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the 60th day after
the date on which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review is either
ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no further
appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that reversal is
available or taken.
   (b)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (c)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
192.006 of this chapter.
   (d)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the city does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the Ohio Board
of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than the
amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as provided
by §
192.006 of this chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by §
192.006(e) of this chapter.
   (e)   No civil action to recover city income tax or related penalties or
interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.010  AUDITS.
   (a)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (b)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (c)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner.
      (3)   This division (c) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
   (d)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (e)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (f)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.011  SERVICE OE ASSESSMENT.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAST KNOWN ADDRESS .  The address the Tax Administrator has at the time a
document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the Tax
Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a change
of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery
service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS. An address to which the postal service or an
authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver an
assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery is
because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (b)   Subject to division (c) of this section, a copy of each assessment
shall be served upon the person effected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056. With
the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax Administrator
may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided in this
section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic mail.
   (c)   (1)   A.   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, a Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a new
last known address, including the use of a change of address service offered by
the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056. If
the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known address, the
assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served. If the
ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable address, the
assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the assessment's postmark.
         B.   Once the Tax Administrator or other city official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the local Board of Tax Review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(c)(1)A. of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and
that the assessment is served.
      (2)   A.   If mailing of an assessment by a Tax Administrator by
certified mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address,
the Tax Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The
assessment shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and
include the following statement:  “This assessment is deemed to be served on
the addressee under applicable law ten days from the date this assessment was
mailed by the Tax Administrator as shown on the assessment, and all periods
within which an appeal may be filed apply from and after that date.”
         B.   Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery
of the assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         C.   If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (c)(l
)A. of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division in accordance with division (d) of this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (c) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified
mail was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the
Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (d)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other city official,
or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division prevents
the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with
the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the local
board of tax review.
   (e)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator’s designee from delivering an assessment by a Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (f)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (c)(1)B. of this section, including those on which a claim has been
delivered for collection, shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section.
   (g)   Additional regulations as detailed in the rules and regulations shall
apply.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.012  ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “claim” means a claim for an amount payable
to the city that arises pursuant to the city’s income tax imposed in accordance
with this chapter.
   (b)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the city:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; or
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (d)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (e)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.013  TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (a)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter is
confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except in
accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the performance
of that person’s official duties or the official business of the city as
authorized by this chapter. The Tax Administrator or a designee thereof may
furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received under this chapter and
other related tax information to the Internal Revenue Service, the Tax
Commissioner, and tax administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit the city from publishing or disclosing
statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect to
particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
192.999
§ 192.014  FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by city ordinance or state law to be
filed with a the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel, or advise
the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend, or knowingly procure,
counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment of the records upon
which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or document is based
with intent to defraud the city or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
192.999
§ 192.015  INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW.   This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the city provided they impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of the city.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE.   The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under Section 1274 of the
Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX.   Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by the city pursuant to
applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE.   The federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest
whole number percent, plus 5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next
following the July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is
determined in accordance with division (a)(2) of this section.
      RETURN.   Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule, and
other document required to be filed with a the Tax Administrator or the city by
a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer pursuant to
applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX.   Estimated income tax due but not paid by
the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX.   Income tax due but not paid by the date the income
tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX.   Withholding tax due but not paid by the date
the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX.   Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (b)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         A.   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1,2016; or
         B.   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the city on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of
the city to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (c)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer, or other payer
for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file
timely with the city any return required to be filed, the following penalties
and interest shall apply:
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (a) of
this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax,
and unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   A.   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the city may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid.
         B. With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the city may impose a
penalty equal to 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the city may impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
   (d)   Nothing in this section requires the city to refund or credit any
penalty, amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that the city has
properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (e)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of the city to abate or
partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when the Tax
Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion, that such
abatement is appropriate.
   (f)   By October 31 of each year, the city shall publish the rate described
in division (a) of this section applicable to the next succeeding calendar
year.
   (g)   City may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer,
or any other payer the city’s post-judgment collection costs and fees,
including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
IMPOSITION OF TAX
§ 192.035  GENERALLY.
   The income tax levied by the city at a rate of 2% is levied on the municipal
taxable income of every person residing in and/or earning and/or receiving
income in the city.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.036  INDIVIDUALS.
   (a)   For residents of the city, the income tax levied in this chapter shall
be on all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, and other
compensation from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including
the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities
owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the
resident. This is further detailed in the definition of INCOME in §
192.002 of this chapter.
   (b)   For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions,
and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the
nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities
conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
   (c)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to MUNICIPAL
TAXABLE INCOME as defined in §
192.002 of this chapter. Exemptions which may apply are specified in the
definition of EXEMPT INCOME in §
192.002 of this chapter.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.037  REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.   A compensation plan described
in Section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      QUALIFYING LOSS.   The amount of compensation attributable to a
taxpayer’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of money
and property attributable to distributions from the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money and
property is made by the nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The taxpayer
sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the taxpayer
receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      QUALIFYING TAX RATE. 
         A.   The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for the which the
taxpayer paid income tax to the city with respect to any portion of the total
amount of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         B.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years, then
the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The
weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to the city each year with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      REFUNDABLE CREDIT.   The amount of the city income tax that was paid on
the nondistributed portion, if any, of a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
   (b)   If, in addition to the city, a taxpayer has paid tax to other
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal
corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s
proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the
taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (c)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this section
exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the city for all
taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (d)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.038  DOMICILE.
   (a)   (1)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the city for all or
part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the city on the last
day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax Administrator
reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the city for all or
part of the taxable year.
      (2)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
subsection (a)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the city
for all or part of the taxable year.
   (b)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the city for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be considered
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the city. For
the purposes of this section, an individual has one contact period with the
city if the individual is away overnight from the individual’s abode located
outside of the city and while away overnight from that abode spends at least
some portion, however minimal, of each of two consecutive days in the city.
   (c)   All additional applicable factors are provided in the rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.039  BUSINESSES.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the city, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the city or the
taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or telephone company that is
subject to and required to file reports under R.C. Chapter 5745.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section, net
profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the city shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the
city for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the
average ratio of the following:
      (1)   A.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the city during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         B.   As used in subsection (1)A. above, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the city to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under §
192.051 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the city to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (b)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (a) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the city, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the city may
require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the
income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or
more of the following:
         A.   Separate accounting;
         B.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         C.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; and/or
         D.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
192.009(A) of this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in subsection (b)(1) of this section, but
only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
192.009(a) of this chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in division (b) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a the Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (c)   As used in subsection (a)(2) of this section, “wages, salaries, and
other compensation” includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         A.   The employer;
         B.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient; or
         C.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
subsection (c)(1)B. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; or
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in subsection (c)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If
the Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (d)   For the purposes of subsection (a)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division (d), a sale of property originates in the city if,
regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the following
criteria:
         A.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the city from a
stock of goods located within the city;
         B.   The property is delivered within the city from a location outside
the city, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own employees
in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the city and the sales result
from such solicitation or promotion; or
         C.   The property is shipped from a place within the city to
purchasers outside the city, provided that the taxpayer is not, through its own
employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion of sales at the
place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
city to the extent that such services are performed in the city.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the city shall be sitused to the city.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the city shall be sitused to the city.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the city based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the city.
   (e)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual, shall be subject to the city’s tax only if the property
generating the net profit is located in the city or if the individual taxpayer
that receives the net profit is a resident of the city. The city shall allow
such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for the purpose of
calculating net profit sitused under this section to the municipal corporation
in which the property is located.
   (f)   (1)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating
to the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the city, if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate located in the city
to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate
everywhere in the taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of the city shall report the
individual’s net profit from all real estate activity on the individual’s
annual tax return for the city. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the city’s income tax ordinance.
   (g)   When calculating the ratios described in division (a) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (b) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 192.050  WITHHOLDING PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or doing
business in the city shall withhold an income tax from the qualifying wages
earned and/or received by each employee in the city. Except for qualifying
wages for which withholding is not required under §§
192.035 through
192.039 of this chapter or subsection (b)(4) or (6) of this section, the tax
shall be withheld at the rate, specified in §§
192.035 through
192.039 of this chapter, of  2%. An employer, agent of an employer, or other
payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that
the employer, agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or constructively
pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit
of, the employee,
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(2) of this section, an
employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the Tax
Administrator of the city the greater of the income taxes deducted and withheld
or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the employer,
agent, or other payer according to the following schedule:
         A.   1.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of city in the preceding calendar year exceeded $2,399, or if the total
amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld
on behalf of the city in any month of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded
$200.
            2.   Payment under subsection (b)(1)A.1. of this section shall be
made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than 15
days after the last day of each month for which the tax was withheld.
         B.   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under subsection (b)(1)A.1. of this section of taxes required
to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of
each calendar quarter.
      (2)   If the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under Section 6302 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the
payment shall be made by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of
all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the city. The payment of tax by
electronic funds transfer under this division (b) does not affect an
employer’s, agent’s, or other payer’s obligation to file any return as required
under this section.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
section shall be accepted by Tax Administrator and the city as the return
required of an non-resident employee whose sole income subject to the tax under
this chapter is the qualifying wages repotted by the employee’s employer, agent
of an employer, or other payer.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required
to withhold the city income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
      (5)   A.   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s, or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         B.   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the city the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for
that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer
in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to a
city income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the city until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         A.   The names, addresses, and social security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the city during the preceding calendar year;
         B.   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         C.   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         D.   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee; and
         E.   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold city income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under
the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division (b), a tip or
gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the
customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the
customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other
electronic means.
      (11)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this chapter, to be tax required to be withheld and remitted
for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
192.999
§ 192.051  OCCASIONAL ENTRANT; WITHHOLDING.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYER.   Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      FIXED LOCATION.  A permanent place of doing business in this state, such
as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or controlled by
an employer.
      PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK. 
         A.   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
         B.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to subsection (b)(1)A. of this section among those two
or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this section shall be
the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying wages
for the purposes of this section.
         C.   For the purposes of this section, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance with
subsection (b)2. of this section, except that location shall be substituted for
municipal corporation wherever municipal corporation appears in that division.
      PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE.   An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER.   A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      PUBLIC FIGURE.   A person of prominence who performs services at discrete
events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for wages or
other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      WORKSITE LOCATION .  A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
   (b)   (1)   Subject to subsections (c), (e), (f) and (g) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold city income tax on qualifying wages paid
to an employee for the performance of personal services in the city if the
employee performed such services in the city on 20 or fewer days in a calendar
year, unless one of the following conditions applies:
         A.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the city; or
         B.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the city. For the purposes of this division, “presumed worksite
location” means a construction site or other temporary worksite in the city at
which the employer provides or provided services that can reasonably be, or
would have been, expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a
calendar year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days” if either of the following applies at the time the services
commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of the services to complete the services; or
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         C.   The employee is a resident of the city and has requested that the
employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided in this
subchapter.
         D.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer,
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure.
      (2)   For the purposes of subsection (b)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in the city only if
the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf of the
employer in the city than in any other municipal corporation on that day. For
the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee spent in a
particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the following
activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee’s principal
place of work:
         A.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         B.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         C.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         D.   Transporting or delivering property described in subsection (b)
(2)C.   of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
         E.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (c)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in subsection (b)(1) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (d)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in the city exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer shall
withhold and remit tax to the city for any subsequent days in that calendar
year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal
services performed in the city.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the city under
subsection (d)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for the city for
the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to the employee
for personal services performed in the city.
   (e)   (1)   If an employer’s fixed location is the city and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
192.002 of this chapter, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on
all of the employee’s qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax
only to the city, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked
outside the corporate boundaries of the city.
      (2)   To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for
a taxable year, the employer will be required to provide the Tax Administrator
with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
   (f)   Subsections (b)(1) and (4) of this section shall not apply to the
extent that the Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
192.999
ANNUAL RETURN; FILING
§ 192.060  GENERALLY.
   (a)   An annual city income tax return shall be completed and filed by every
individual taxpayer 18 years of age or older and any taxpayer that is not an
individual for each taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the tax,
whether or not a tax is due thereon.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under §
192.060 through
192.063 of this chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income
subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of
an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due the city.
      (2)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for city income tax
purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption from these
filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The written
exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from which
retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives municipal taxable income taxable to the city, at which time the
retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (b)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (c)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the city, the return or notice required of that individual shall be
completed and filed by the individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary, or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
   (d)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (e)   The city shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
   (f)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall
include the taxpayer’s social security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return and amended return, copies of the following
documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form W-2, Wage and
Tax Statements, including all information reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-
2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal corporation;
the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1040; and, with respect to an
amended tax return, any other documentation necessary to support the
adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the
annual return required by this section electronically is not required to
provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless
the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A.   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return, or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form
1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-RE1T, Form 1120F, or Form 1120S, and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         B.   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this section to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the city to determine and verify the taxpayer’s municipal
income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (f) of this
section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on
a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (g)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the city. No remittance is required if the net
amount due is ten dollars or less.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is not
an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of the
taxpayer’s taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the city. No remittance is required if
the net amount due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the city’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the city’s income tax return shall be the 15th
day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates. An extension of time to file under this division is not an
extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an
extension of that date.
         A.   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the city’s income tax return.
         B.   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may submit a
written request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month
extension of the date for filing the taxpayer’s city income tax return. If the
request is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the city
income tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s
requested extension.
      (3)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the city’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the city’s income tax return shall be the same
as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the city, the Tax Administrator may require
taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided in this
division, including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (5)   To the extent that any provision in this division (g) of this
section conflicts with any provision in §
192.062 of this section, the provisions in divisions §
192.062 of this chapter prevail.
   (h)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the city shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the city for a taxable
year pursuant to division (h)(1) of this section shall file with the city an
annual net profit return under subsection (f)(3) of this section.
   (i)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer, the
payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. This division shall not
apply to payments required to be made under §
192.050(b)(1)A. of this chapter or provisions for semi-monthly withholding.
   (j)   Taxes withheld for the city by an employer, the agent of an employer,
or other payer as described in §§
192.050 and
192.051 of this chapter shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the taxpayer by the city, unless the amounts
withheld were not remitted to the city and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
   (k)   Each return required by the city to be filed in accordance with this
division shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another
person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to communicate
with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
   (l)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by the city, provided that the
generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted by the city
or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer
filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter
and of the city’s ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations governing the
filing of returns, reports, or documents.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.061  FILING VIA OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY.
   (a)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file the city’s income
tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for filing a
municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to be due on
such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (c)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.062  EXTENSION FOR SERVICE IN OR FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
   (a)   Each member of the National Guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the city for
both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time for
payment of taxes required by the city during the period of the member’s or
civilian’s duty service, and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be
filed on or before the 180th- day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant’s active duty or
service terminates. The Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as
the Tax Administrator considers appropriate. However, taxes pursuant to a
contract entered into under this division are not delinquent, and the Tax
Administrator shall not require any payments of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the city before the 181st day after the applicant’s active
duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under subsection (1)
of this division (b) are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not
require any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes
for the extension period.
   (c)   (1)   Nothing in this division (c) denies to any person described in
this division (c) the application of divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
         A.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under the
Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to file
any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in which to
make any payment of taxes required by the city in accordance with this chapter.
The length of any extension granted under this subsection A. shall be equal to
the length of the corresponding extension that the taxpayer receives under the
Internal Revenue Code. As used in this division (c), “qualifying taxpayer”
means a member of the National Guard or a member of a reserve component of the
Armed Forces of the United States called to active duty pursuant to either an
executive order issued by the President of the United States or an act of the
Congress of the United States, or a civilian serving as support personnel in a
combat zone or contingency operation in support of the Armed Forces.
         B.   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with subsection (c)
(2)A. of this section are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under subsection(C)(2)A. of this section in
calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (d)   For each taxable year to which divisions (a), (b), or (c) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of subsections (b)(2) and (3) of
this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.063  CONSOLIDATED MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS .  An affiliated group as defined in
Section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.   A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 1501 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.   The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition of AFFILIATED GROUP OF
CORPORATIONS.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER.   Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE.   Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (b)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the city’s
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under subsection (2) below or a
taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator
shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under subsection (1) above. The election to discontinue filing a
consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under subsection (1) or (2) above is binding on
all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a municipal
income tax.
   (c)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated city income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the city. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated city
income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated city income tax
return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer requests and
receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a separate
return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
   (d)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated city income tax return in the
same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (2), (3) and (4)
below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
192.002 of this chapter, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income”
for “federal taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that
division and by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C
corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated city income tax return shall
make any adjustment otherwise required under the definition of ADJUSTED FEDERAL
TAXABLE INCOME  listed in §
192.002 of this chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated the city income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         A.   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in this section, exclude the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the city. If the
entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity shall be subject to
taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity’s net profits that
would otherwise be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the
affiliated group.
         B.   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in this section, include the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the city. If the
entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity shall not be subject to
taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that
are included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated
group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass- through entity having less
than 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         A.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in this section, exclude the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to the city; and
         B.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the city income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (f)   Corporations filing a consolidated city income tax return shall make
the computations required under this section by substituting “consolidated
federal taxable income attributable to” for “net profit from” wherever “net
profit from” appears in that section and by substituting “affiliated group of
corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (g)   Each corporation filing a consolidated city income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by the city in accordance with this chapter on the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group.
   (h)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the city before January 1, 2016, to file a consolidated
or combined tax return with the city may continue to file consolidated or
combined tax returns in accordance with such election or agreement for taxable
years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR;
VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION
§ 192.075  AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of the Tax Administrator
to perform any of the following duties or functions, unless the performance of
such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision of the Ohio
Revised Code:
   (a)   (1)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an query nature as provided by
law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums, and
federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to issue
orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers, records,
documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; and
      (2)   The powers referred to in this division shall be exercised by the
Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under the city’s income tax
ordinance;
   (b)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (c)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (d)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator’s findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as
provided in this chapter;
   (e)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (f)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
192.035 through 192.039 of this chapter;
   (g)   (1)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, and orders
the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and, pursuant
to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own motion,
review, re-determine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, or orders the Tax Administrator has made; and
      (2)   If an appeal has been filed with the Board of Tax Review or other
appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-determine, or
correct any tax finding, determination, computation, or order which the Tax
Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by the
appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (h)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; or
   (i)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §§
192.050 and
192.051 of this chapter.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.076  VERIFICATION OF ACCURACY OF RETURNS AND DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   (a)   A Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (b)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by the city or for the withholding of such tax.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (d)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.077  IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from requiring
any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information, which may include the person’s social security number,
federal employer identification number, or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
192.015 of this chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
192.015 of this chapter.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under this section within 30 days after
filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information, nothing in
this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant
to §
192.015 of this chapter.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under subsections (b)(1) and (2) of this
section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in §
192.999 of this chapter for a violation of §
192.014 of this chapter and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.016  REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   An “opinion of the Tax Administrator” means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (b)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with the rules and regulations.
   (c)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (d)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (e)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (f)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.017  BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (a)   (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the city, but such
appointees may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with the
city at any time during their term or in the five years (which applies only to
these two appointments) immediately preceding the date of appointment. One
member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city. This member may be an
employee of the city, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent
officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee
directly involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Board of Tax Review of the city shall
be two years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may serve
if the member is reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member
appointed by the Mayor of the city shall serve at the discretion of the
administrative official.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member, the
legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against the
member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person or
by counsel in the member’s own defense upon not less than ten days’ notice. The
decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Tax Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board of Tax Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Board of Tax Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board of Tax
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the
legislative authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board of Tax
Review in the member’s place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (b)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (c)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board of Tax Review by filing a request with the Board of Tax Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (d)   The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (c) of this
section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board of Tax Review and may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The Board of Tax Review
may allow a hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the patties. In
such a case, the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day
of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (e)   The Board of Tax Review may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax
Administrator’s assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board of Tax
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Board of Tax Review’s final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Board of Tax Review’s final determination as
provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (f)   The Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Tax Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. §
121.22.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.018  AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the legislative authority of the
city, or a Tax Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the administrator
by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an income tax imposed
by the city in accordance with this chapter. Such rules shall not conflict with
or be inconsistent with any provision of this chapter. Taxpayers are hereby
required to comply not only with the requirements of this chapter, but also to
comply with the rules and regulations.
   (b)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.019  RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (a)   All property owners of real property located in the city, who rent or
otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for residential
dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental accommodations,
during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the effective date
of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or before the January
31 first following such calendar year a written report disclosing the name,
address and also telephone number, if available, of each tenant known to have
occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such apartment, room or other
residential dwelling rental property.
   (b)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him or her, or
his or her duly authorized agent, of any person whom he or she believes to have
any knowledge of the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of
residential rental real property in the city. The Tax Administrator, or his or
her duly authorized agent, is authorized to examine any person, under oath,
concerning the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of residential
real property located in the city. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized agent, may compel the production of papers and records and the
attendance of all personal before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he or she believes such person has knowledge of the name, address and
telephone number of any tenant of residential real property in the city.
   (c)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
192.999 of this chapter:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (a) hereof;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (a) hereof;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or are duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.020  COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter shall have been fully
terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §§
192.009 and
192.999 of this chapter.
   (b)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
192.050,
192.051 and
192.060 through
192.063 of this chapter as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.021  ADOPTION OF RITA RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts the Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) rules and
regulations, including amendments that may be made from time to time, for use
as the city’s income tax rules and regulations. In the event of a conflict with
any provisions of the city income tax ordinance and the RITA rules and
regulations, the ordinance will supersede. Until and if the contractual
relationship between the city and RITA ceases, this section will supersede all
other provisions within chapter regarding promulgation of rules and regulations
by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
§ 192.999  PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
192.013(a),
192.014,
192.050 or
192.051 by failing to remit the city income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is an
employee, or official, of the city, the individual is subject to discharge from
employment or dismissal from office.
   (b)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of §
192.013(a) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of the city, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
   (c)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
192.013(a) constitutes a separate offense.
   (d)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   File any incomplete or false return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and federal and state
income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (5)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers or federal and state income tax returns relating to
the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator;
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
      (8)   Give to an employer false information as to his or her true name,
correct social security number, and residence address, or fail to promptly
notify an employer of any change in residence address and date thereof; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (e)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in division (d) above
shall be subject to the penalties provided for in division (a) above.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 11-4-2015)
CHAPTER 193:  ADMISSIONS TAX
Section
193.01   Definitions
193.02   Admissions tax levied; rates
193.03   Admissions exempt from tax
193.04   Admissions exempt in case of temporary or transitory amusement
193.05   Collection of tax
193.06   Certificate of registration
193.07   Certificate of registration in case of temporary or transitory
amusement
193.08   Rules and regulations
193.09   Effective date
193.10   Appeals; Board of Appeals
193.11   Confidential reports; penalty
193.12   Severability
 
193.99   Penalty
§ 193.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMISSION CHARGE. The charge made for the right or privilege to enter into a
place, provided, however, that if such charge includes rental of property or
services it shall be deemed to be an ADMISSION CHARGE if so designated, unless
the charge is for rental or services and persons who do not use such property
or services are admitted free. If a lesser charge is made to persons who do not
desire to use the property or services offered, the lesser charge shall
constitute the admission charge. The designation of the charge as a rental or
service charge shall not be construed to avoid the application of the tax if it
is in effect a charge for admission.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR.  The Finance Director of the city.
   PLACE. Includes, but is not restricted to, theaters, dance halls,
amphitheaters, auditoriums, stadiums, athletic pavilions and fields, baseball
and athletic parks, circuses, sideshows, swimming pools, outdoor amusement
parks and such attractions as merry-go-rounds, ferris wheels, dodge ‘ems,
roller coasters and observation towers.
   PERSON.  Any individual, receiver, assignee, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, corporation, company, joint-stock company, association, society or any
group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal,
nonprofit or otherwise.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.02  ADMISSIONS TAX LEVIED; RATES.
   There is hereby levied and imposed upon every person who pays an admission
charge to any place:
   (a)   A tax of 3% on the amounts paid for admission to any place, including
admission by season ticket or subscription. The tax shall apply to every
admission within the city for which a charge is made, notwithstanding that the
sale of the ticket or other evidence of right of admission thereto is made
outside of the city;
   (b)   A tax of 3% on the excess of the amounts paid for tickets or cards of
admission to theaters, operas and other places of amusement, sold at
newsstands, hotels and places other than the ticket offices of such theaters,
operas or other places of amusement, over and above the amounts representing
the established price therefor at such ticket offices, such tax to be returned
and paid in the manner provided in §
193.05 by the person selling the ticket;
   (c)   A tax of 3% on the amount paid for admission to any public performance
for profit at any roof garden, cabaret or other similar entertainment in case
the charge for admission is in the form of a service charge or cover charge or
other similar charge; and
   (d)   A tax of 3% on the amount paid as annual membership dues by every club
or organization maintaining a golf course, and a tax of 3% on greens fees paid
to golf courses either under club or private ownership.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.03  ADMISSIONS EXEMPT FROM TAX.
   No tax shall be levied under this chapter with respect to any admission all
the proceeds of which inure:
   (a)   Exclusively to the benefit of a primary or secondary school;
religious, educational or charitable institutions; societies or organizations;
societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children or
animals, or societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of
maintaining symphony orchestras and receiving substantial support from
voluntary contributions, or of improving any municipal corporation, or of
maintaining a cooperative or community center moving picture theater or
swimming pool, if no part of the net earnings thereof inure to the benefit of
any private stockholder or individual;
   (b)   Exclusively to the benefit of persons in the military or naval forces
of the United States or of National Guard organizations, reserve officer
associations or posts or organizations of war veterans or auxiliary units or
societies of any such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations,
units or societies are organized in the state and if no part of their net
earnings inure to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual;
   (c)   Exclusively to the benefit of persons who have served in the military
or naval forces of the United States and are in need;
   (d)   Exclusively to the benefit of members of the police or fire
departments of any municipal corporation, or the dependents or heirs of such
members; or
   (e)   (1)   Exclusively to the benefit of the general revenue fund of any
municipal corporation or exclusively to the benefit of any fund of any
municipal corporation under the control of a recreation commission. This
exemption from the tax, however, shall not be allowed in cases wherein the
admission price is $0.43 or more.
      (2)   The exemption from tax provided by this section shall, however, not
be allowed in case of admissions to wrestling matches, prize fights or boxing,
sparring or other pugilistic matches or exhibitions, unless exclusively for the
benefit of those organizations set forth in division (b) above, nor in the case
of admissions to any athletic game or exhibition, the proceeds of which inure
wholly or partly to the benefit of any college or university.
      (3)   Immediately after the event for which an exemption from admission
tax has been allowed, the treasurer of the institution, society or organization
for whose benefit such event was held shall file an itemized statement with the
Finance Director setting forth the amount of money actually received by such
treasurer, together with the expenses of promoting and conducting such event.
Such statement shall be used as a basis of subsequent requests for exemption
from admissions tax for the benefit of such institution, society or
organization and if such statement shows a disproportionate expenditure for
promoting and conducting of such event, in relation to the profits, if any, no
such exemption shall thereafter be allowed to such institution, society or
organization.
      (4)   The exemption of tax provided in this section shall not be allowed
to any institution, society or organization which does not control the sale of
admissions to the event for which the exemption is requested, nor shall any
exemption be allowed where talent, services or other items are compensated for
on a percentage basis if such percentage results in a payment in excess of the
flat rate ordinarily charged for the same talent, services or other items.
(Ord. 4618, passed 1-29-1952)
§ 193.04  ADMISSIONS EXEMPT IN CASE OF TEMPORARY OR TRANSITORY AMUSEMENT.
   In addition to the exemptions provided by §
193.03, no tax shall be levied under this chapter with respect to any
admissions for an amusement, entertainment or exhibition which complies with
all of the following requirements:
   (a)   Such event is of a temporary or transitory nature;
   (b)   Such event is not a regular business of the applicant;
   (c)   Such event occurs infrequently but not more often than five times per
year; and
   (d)   The gross admission charges including any federal taxes amount to less
than $100.
(Ord. 4401, passed 12-27-1949)
§ 193.05  COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (a)   Every person receiving any payment on which a tax is levied under this
chapter shall collect the amount of the tax imposed from the person making the
admission payment. The tax required to be collected under this chapter shall be
deemed to be held in trust by the person required to collect the same until
paid to the Finance Director as herein provided. Any person required to collect
the tax imposed under this chapter who fails to collect the same, or having
collected the same, fails to remit the same to the Finance Director in the
manner prescribed by this chapter, whether such failure be the result of his or
her own act or the result of acts or conditions beyond his or her control,
shall nevertheless be personally liable to the city for the amount of such tax,
and shall, unless the remittance be made as herein shall be collected at the
time the admission charge is paid by the person seeking admission to any place
and shall be reported and remitted by the person receiving the tax to the
Finance Director in monthly installments and remittances on or before the
thirtieth day of the month next succeeding the end of the monthly period in
which the tax is collected or received, provided that the first return and
remittance under this chapter shall be made on or before November 30, 1947, and
shall cover the period from and including October 1 to and including October 31
or a four or five-week policy month period as the case may be.
   (b)   Payment or remittance of the tax collected may be made by check,
unless payment or remittance is otherwise required by the Finance Director, but
payment by check shall not relieve the person collecting the tax from liability
for payment and remittance of the tax to the Finance Director unless the check
is honored and is in the full and correct amount. The person receiving any
payment for admissions shall make out a return upon such forms and setting
forth such information as the Finance Director may require, showing the amount
of the tax upon admissions for which he or she is liable for the preceding
monthly period and shall sign and transmit the same to the Finance Director
with a remittance for such amount, provided, that the Finance Director may, in
his or her discretion, require verified annual returns from any person
receiving admission payments setting forth such additional information as the
Finance Director may deem necessary to determine correctly the amount of tax
collected and payable.
   (c)   Whenever any theater, circus, show, exhibition, entertainment or
amusement makes an admission charge which is subject to the tax herein levied
and the same is of a temporary or transitory nature, of which the Finance
Director shall be the judge, the Finance Director may require the report and
remittance of the admission tax immediately upon the collection of the same at
the conclusion of the performance or exhibition or at the conclusion of the
series of performances or exhibitions or at such other times as the Finance
Director shall determine. Failure to comply with any requirement of the Finance
Director as to report and remittance of the tax as required shall be a
violation of this chapter. The books, records and accounts of any person
collecting a tax herein levied shall, as to admission charges and tax
collections, be at all reasonable times subject to examination and audit by the
Finance Director. If the tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due,
there shall be added, as part of the tax, interest at the rate of 1% per month
from the time when the tax became due until paid.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.06  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Any person conducting or operating any place for entrance to which an
admission charge is made shall, on a form prescribed by the Finance Director,
make application to and procure from the Finance Director a certificate of
registration, the fee for which shall be $1, which certificate shall continue
valid until December 31 of the year in which the same is issued.
   (b)   The certificate of registration, or duplicate original copies thereof
to be issued by the Finance Director without additional charge, shall be posted
in a conspicuous place in each ticket or box office where tickets of admission
are sold.
   (c)   No certificate of registration hereunder shall be required for the
year 1947 of any holder of a valid and unrevoked permanent amusement license
issued for the year 1947 by the Department of Taxation of the state.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.07  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION IN CASE OF TEMPORARY OR TRANSITORY
AMUSEMENT.
   Whenever a certificate of registration is obtained for the purpose of
operating or conducting a temporary or transitory amusement, entertainment or
exhibition by persons who are not the owners, lessees or custodians of the
building, lots or place where the amusement is to be conducted, the tax imposed
by this chapter shall be reported and remitted as provided in §
193.05 hereof by such owner, lessee or custodian, unless paid by the person
conducting the place. The applicant for a certificate of registration for such
purpose shall furnish with the application therefor the name and address of the
owner, lessee or custodian of the premises upon which the amusement is to be
conducted, and such owner, lessee or custodian shall be notified by the Finance
Director of the issuance of such certificate and the joint liability for
collection and remittance of such tax.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.08  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The Finance Director shall have power to adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the terms of this chapter for carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the tax herein levied, and copies
shall be printed and made available in the office of the Finance Director.
Failure or refusal to comply with any such rules and regulations shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (b)   Until such time as rules and regulations are promulgated under this
section, the rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Taxation,
relating to admission taxes in effect on August 31, 1947, except as the same
may conflict with the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed to be the
rules and regulations hereunder.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected and paid on and after
October 1, 1947.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.10  APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Appeals from any ruling of the Finance Director hereunder shall be made to a
Board of Appeals consisting of the Mayor, Director of Law, Director of Health,
Chief of Police, and Chief of the Fire Department, in such manner as the Board
shall establish. The Board shall have the authority to annul, modify or affirm
any such ruling appealed from, in conformity with the intent and purpose of
this chapter.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.11  CONFIDENTIAL REPORTS; PENALTY.
   All returns and information relating to the business of any person required
to collect the tax imposed by this chapter and coming into the possession of
the Finance Director, his or her agents and employees shall be held
confidential. No disclosures thereof shall be made unless ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction except, however, that the Finance Director may furnish
the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Treasury Department of the United States, with
copies of returns filed. Whoever violates any provision of this section shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both,
for each such violation, and shall thereafter be disqualified from acting in
any official capacity whatsoever in connection with the assessment or
collection of taxes under this chapter.
§ 193.12  SEVERABILITY.
   Sections
193.01 to
193.11, inclusive, and each part of such sections, are hereby declared to be
independent sections or parts of sections, and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any provision of such sections, or the application
thereof, to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remaining
sections or parts of sections and the application of such provision to any
persons or circumstances, other than those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that this chapter
would have been passed independently of such section, sections or parts of a
section so held to be invalid.
(Ord. 4168, passed 9-23-1947)
§ 193.99  PENALTY.
   Any person charged by this chapter with the duty of collecting or paying the
taxes imposed by this chapter who willfully fails or refuses to charge and
collect or to pay such taxes, or to make return to the Finance Director as
required by this chapter, or to permit the Finance Director, or his or her duly
authorized agent, to examine his or her books and other records, in or upon any
premises where the same are kept, to the extent necessary to verify any return
made or to ascertain and assess the tax imposed by this chapter if no return
was made, or to maintain and keep for three years or such lessor or greater
time as may be permitted or required by the Finance Director, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 195:  MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
195.01   Tax levied
Cross-reference:
   Authority to levy, see Ohio R.C. 4504.172
§ 195.01  TAX LEVIED.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4504.172,
for the purposes of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and
administering the tax provided for in this section; and to provide additional
revenue for the purposes set forth in Ohio R.C. 4504.06; and to supplement
revenue already available for such purposes.
   (b)   The tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and every
motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4503.10, is in the city. As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means
any and all vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in Ohio
R.C. 4501.01 and 4505.01.
   (c)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the state or to a Deputy Registrar at the time application
for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.10.
   (d)   All moneys derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used by
the city for the purposes of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and
administering this fee; for the planning, constructing, improving, maintaining,
and repairing public roads and streets; paying for compensatory damages, costs
and expenses, for planning, constructing, improving, maintaining and repairing
public roads and streets; purchasing, erecting and maintaining traffic lights
and signals; paying debt service charges on notes or bonds of the municipal
corporation.
   (e)   The tax imposed by this section shall apply to and be in effect for
the registration year commencing January 1, 1988, and shall continue in effect
and application during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 7898, passed 9-15-1987)
PART 3:  TRAFFIC CODE
         Title
            
1.   ADMINISTRATION
            
3.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
            
5.   VEHICLES
            
7.   PARKING
            
9.   PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
TITLE 1:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
301   Definitions
      
303   Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty
      
305   Traffic Control
      
307   Impounding and Vehicle Pounds
CHAPTER 301:  DEFINITIONS
Section
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases
Cross-reference:
   Blind person defined, see §
371.02
   Funeral procession defined, see §
331.24
   Street racing defined, see §
333.07
§ 301.01  MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this traffic code and the penal laws of the municipality. Except
as otherwise provided, the following words and phrases, when used in this
traffic code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
chapter.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.  Every self- propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY.  A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side
of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET.  Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON.  A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE.  Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS.  Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other
than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and
used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.  A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a chauffeured
limousine. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME . These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.  Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or
used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a CROSSWALK  where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER OR OPERATOR.  Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE.  Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.  Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.  Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.  Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES.  Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended
for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
EXPLOSIVES when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of a nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a simultaneous
or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life, limb or
property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by a detonator, such as
fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY.  A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID.  Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY.  A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse,
while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT.  The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE.  A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.  A power- operated traffic-control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON.  A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic-control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic-control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic- control signal, regardless
of the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2)
of this definition:
         A.   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         B.   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         C.   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY.  A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES.  Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   MEDIAN.  The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power
shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not
designed for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging
machinery, well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery,
and trailers designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place
of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25
mph or less.
   MOTORCYCLE.  Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as MOTOR- DRIVEN CYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER, AUTOCYCLE, CAB-ENCLOSED
MOTORCYCLE or MOTORCYCLE without regard to weight or brake horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED.  Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be capable of being
pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one brake
horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater
than 20 mph on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR.  Any self- propelled vehicle designed for, and used
by, a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of 8
mph.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.  A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE.  To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   PARKING OR PARKED.  The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLE TRAILER.  Every trailer or semi-trailer attached to the towing vehicle
by means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the
towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped
loads such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78 or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D) or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.  A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE,  shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether the vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD.  A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.  Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN.  A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT.  Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS  known as carpools,
vanpools and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.  Wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state, county
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE.  Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by
adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS.  Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided, SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within those
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and SCHOOL BUS does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or type A family day-care home to transport children from the child day-
care center or type A family day-care home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMI-TRAILER.  Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of
its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH.  A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
SHARED-USE PATH also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and
non-motorized users. A SHARED-USE PATH  does not include any trail that is
intended to be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or
other similar uses, or any other single track or natural surface trial that has
historically been reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY.  A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE.  Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP.  When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION.  Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING OR STANDING.  When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY.  A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.  A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER.  Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semi-trailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph and a vehicle
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
mph.
   TRUCK.  Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semi-trailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   URBAN DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE.  Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE  does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any personal
delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513, any device that is moved by
power collected from overhead electric trolley wires or that is used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or any device, other than a
bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE.  A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
CHAPTER 303:  ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING AND PENALTY
Section
303.01   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
303.02   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guard
303.03   Officer may remove ignition key
303.04   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted
303.041   Emergency, public safety and coroner’s vehicles exempt
303.05   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway
303.06   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals
303.07   Application to drivers of government vehicles
303.08   Radar arrests
303.09   Providing false information to police officer
 
303.99   General Traffic Code penalty
Cross-reference:
   Citations for minor misdemeanors, see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.
   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles, see Ohio R.C. 737.32, 4513.62 et seq.
   Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers, see Ohio R.C. 4549.15
   Exceptions for emergency or public safety vehicles, see §§
331.20,
333.06
   Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers, see Ohio R.C. 4549.13
   Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations, see Ohio R.C. 4507.16, 4510.15
   State point system suspension, see Ohio R.C. 4510.036
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law, see Ohio R.C. 4511.06
§ 303.01  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring his or her motor vehicle to a stop.
(R.C. § 2921.331)
(Editor’s note: Refer to Ohio R.C. 2921.331 for filing charges under division
(b) hereof since the jury or judge as trier of fact may determine the violation
to be a felony.)
§ 303.02  TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARD.
   (a)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this traffic code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this traffic code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which the guard may be
assigned.
§ 303.03  OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 303.04  ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §
333.01, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from that work.
   (b)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and any other markings as
are required by law and the lights are in operation when the driver and vehicle
are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for violations of
R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33,
4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02 and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. §§ 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66
or 4513.02 or 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
§ 303.041  EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER’S VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   (a)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (b)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 303.05  APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 303.06  FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
   (a)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-
way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated from
the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
   (b)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a freeway,
with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals; a
pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 303.07  APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
§ 303.08  RADAR ARRESTS.
The driver of any motor vehicle which has been checked by radar or by any
electrical or mechanical timing device to determine the speed of the motor
vehicle over a measured distance of the street and found to be in violation of
any of the provisions of §
333.03, may be arrested until a warrant can be obtained, provided such officer
has observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves, electrical or mechanical tuning device, or has received a radio
message from the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded
by the radio microwaves, electrical or mechanical timing device; provided, in
case of an arrest based on such a message, such radio message has been
dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor vehicle was recorded and
the arresting officer is furnished a description of the motor vehicle for
proper identification and the recorded speed.
(R.C. § 4511.091)
§ 303.09  PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION TO POLICE OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, Social Security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 303.99  GENERAL TRAFFIC CODE PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
Traffic Code, where another penalty is not otherwise provided for, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
   (b)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
Traffic Code for which a misdemeanor classification is imposed shall be
imprisoned for a definite term or fined, or both, which term of imprisonment
and fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in this section.
 
Classification of Misdemeanor Maximum Term of Imprisonment Maximum Fine
First Degree (R.C. § 2929.21)Six months                   $1,000
 
   (c)   The court of record before which a person is charged with a violation
for which points are chargeable by this section shall assess and transcribe to
the abstract of conviction that is furnished by the Bureau to the court the
number of points chargeable by this section in the correct space assigned on
the reporting form. A United States district court that has jurisdiction within
this state and before which a person is charged with a violation for which
points are chargeable by this section may assess and transcribe to the abstract
of conviction report that is furnished by the Bureau the number of points
chargeable by this section in the correct space assigned on the reporting form.
If the federal court so assesses and transcribes the points chargeable for the
offense and furnishes the report to the Bureau, the Bureau shall record the
points in the same manner as those assessed and transcribed by a court of
record or Mayor’s court.
   (d)   A court shall assess the fallowing points for an offense based on the
following formula:
      (1)   A violation of §§
537.02 or
537.021 (vehicular assault in a construction zone) when the offense involves
the operation of a vehicle, streetcar or trackless trolley on a highway or
street: six points;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2921.331, municipal code §§
303.01(b),
335.12 or
335.13, or any ordinance prohibiting the willful fleeing or eluding of a law
enforcement officer: six points;
      (3)   A violation of R.C. § 4549.02 or 4549.021 or any ordinance
requiring the driver of a vehicle to stop and disclose identity at the scene of
an accident: six points;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.251 or any ordinance prohibiting street
racing; six points;
      (5)   A violation of R.C. § 4510.037 or any ordinance prohibiting the
operation of a motor vehicle while the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
is under a 12-point suspension: six points;
      (6)   A violation of R.C. § 4510.14, or any ordinance prohibiting the
operation of a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways within this
state while the driver’s or commercial driver’s license of the person is under
suspension and the suspension was imposed under R.C. §§ 4511.19, 4511.191 or
4511.196 or §  R.C. 4510.07 due to a conviction for a violation of the
municipal OVI or §
333.01 of the municipal code or any ordinance prohibiting the operation of a
motor vehicle while the driver’s or commercial driver’s license is under
suspension for an OVI offense: six points;
      (7)   A violation of division (A) of R.C. § 4511.19, or municipal code §
333.01 or any ordinance prohibiting the operation of a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them, or any
ordinance substantially equivalent to division (A) of R.C. § 4511.19
prohibiting the operation of a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine: six points;
      (8)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.03 or §
545.06 of the municipal code that does not involve an aircraft or motorboat or
any ordinance prohibiting the operation of a vehicle without the consent of the
owner: six points;
      (9)   Any offense under the motor vehicle laws of this state that is a
felony, or any other felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle was
used: six points;
      (10)   A violation of division (B) of R.C. § 4511.19, §
333.01 of the municipal code or any ordinance substantially equivalent to that
division prohibiting the operation of a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine: four
points;
      (11)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or §
333.02 of the municipal code or any ordinance prohibiting the operation of a
motor vehicle in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or
property: four points;
      (12)   A violation of any law or ordinance pertaining to speed:
         A.   Notwithstanding divisions (d)(12)B. and (d)(12)C. below, when the
speed exceeds the lawful speed limit by 30 mph or more: four points;
         B.   When the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit of 55 mph or more
by more than 10 mph: two points;
         C.   When the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit of less than 55 mph
by more than five mph: two points; and
         D.   When the speed does not exceed the amounts set forth in divisions
(d)(12)A., (d)(12)B. or (d)(12)C. of this section: zero points.
      (13)   Operating a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction imposed by
the state registrar: two points;
      (14)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111, 4510.16 or 4510.21 or §§
335.07,
335.072 or
335.073 of the municipal code or any ordinance prohibiting the operation of a
motor vehicle while the driver’s or commercial driver’s license is under
suspension: two points; and
      (15)   With the exception of violations under R.C. § 4510.12 or §
335.02 of the municipal code where no points shall be assessed, all other
moving violations reported under this section: two points.
   (e)   If a person is convicted of or forfeits bail for two or more offenses
arising out of the same facts and points are chargeable for each of the
offenses, points shall be charged for only the conviction or bond forfeiture
for which the greater number of points is chargeable, and, if the number of
points chargeable for each offense is equal, only one offense shall be
recorded, and points shall be charged only for that offense.
   (f)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (f)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         A.   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless tech- nology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         B.   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         C.   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (f)(1)C.:
            1.   “Utility” means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C),
(D), (E), or (G).
            2.   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by
a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         A.   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially similar
municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted while
committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a contributing
factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter a written
plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket, citation,
or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total amount of the
fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         B.   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (f)(2)A. of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
(Ord. 05-12, passed 4-12-2012)
CHAPTER 305:  TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
305.01   Enforcement by Police Department
305.02   Assignment and delegation of authority
305.03   Authority of Mayor
305.04   Limitations on administrative regulations
305.05   Duty of Traffic Engineer
305.06   Violations subject to general code penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22(A),
4511.23
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see Ohio
R.C. 4511.65; §
313.02
   Local traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. 4511.11
   Power to designate highway as included in a freeway, expressway or thruway,
see Ohio R.C. 4511.011
   Truck zones, bus and taxicab stands, see §§
351.07 et seq.
§ 305.01  ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this Traffic Code. The
Chief of Police shall assign such officers and members of the Police Department
as he or she may determine necessary, who shall be charged with the specific
duty of enforcing the provisions of this Traffic Code.
§ 305.02  ASSIGNMENT AND DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever in this Traffic Code authority is granted to the Mayor, Chief of
Police or Traffic Engineer, it shall be understood that such authority may, at
the discretion of these officials, and in conformance with efficient
administrative practice, be delegated to subordinates within the city
organization.
§ 305.03  AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor or the Chief of Police or the Traffic Engineer, if duly delegated
by the Mayor, is hereby authorized and empowered:
   (a)   To make and enforce regulations necessary to make effective the
provisions of this Traffic Code and to establish and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   (b)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
other places as he or she may deem necessary.
   (c)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he or
she may deem necessary and advisable, consistent with the provisions of this
Traffic Code.
   (d)   To determine the right and left sides of laned streets by fixing and
marking or designating the centerline of such streets.
   (e)   To establish temporarily a zone of quiet upon any street where a
person is seriously ill if he or she is requested to do so by the written
statement of at least one registered physician certifying as to its necessity.
Such temporary zone of quiet shall embrace all territory within a radius of 200
feet of the building occupied by the person who is ill. Such temporary zone of
quiet, and any other zone of quiet, shall be designated by placing at a
conspicuous place in the street a sign or marking bearing the words “Quiet
Zone”.
   (f)   To declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place
appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect
same.
   (g)   To determine the location of truck zones for the loading and unloading
of materials, and to place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same,
and stating the hours during which the provisions regarding truck zones shall
be applicable.
   (h)   To establish safety zones and safety islands of such kind and
character, and at such places as he or she may deem necessary for the
protection of pedestrians.
   (i)   To designate the streets or parts of streets upon which there shall be
no stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, or upon which there shall be no
standing, stopping or parking of vehicles for a limited time or during certain
hours.
   (j)   To designate streets upon which vehicular traffic shall move in only
one direction.
   (k)   To close temporarily or restrict the use of any street or portion
thereof when required by public safety or convenience.
   (l)   To prohibit or require left or right hand turns by vehicles at
intersections.
   (m)   To designate stop or yield street intersections.
   (n)   To designate taxicab stands.
   (o)   To designate by means of markers or signs placed above, within or
adjacent to intersections, the lanes from which right or left turns may be
negotiated by vehicles, certain types of vehicles or busses turning at such
intersection.
   (p)   To determine those portions of any street where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway
would be especially hazardous, and to indicate the beginning and end of such
zones by appropriate signs or markings on the street.
   (q)   To determine and designate intersections and other portions of the
streets or highways requiring traffic and pedestrian control signals, and to
place such traffic and pedestrian control signals.
   (r)   To erect “No U-turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction.
   (s)   To erect signs directing slow moving traffic to use a designated lane
or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction.
   (t)   To prohibit a right turn against a steady red signal at any
intersection which shall be effective when signs giving notice thereof are
posted at the intersection.
§ 305.04  LIMITATIONS ON ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   No such regulation shall permit parking in any of the places prohibited by §
351.02 or by law, nor shall any such regulation limiting the time of parking or
prohibiting parking be deemed to apply on Sundays, holidays other than Saturday
afternoon, or between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless the
regulations and the sign evidencing the same specifically so state.
§ 305.05  DUTY OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (a)   Placing of stop or yield signs. It shall be the duty of the Traffic
Engineer to place and maintain a stop or yield sign at each and every street
intersecting a through street, except that no stop sign shall be placed or
maintained on any street intersecting another where a traffic-control signal is
located and operating.
   (b)   Determination of business districts. The Traffic Engineer shall, after
proper investigation, determine what portions of the city are within business
districts as defined in §
301.01, and erect signs so indicating and setting forth the speeds therein.
   (c)   Maintenance of traffic-control devices. It shall be the duty of the
Traffic Engineer to maintain traffic-control devices as required under the
provisions of this Traffic Code. All signs and signals designated for a
particular purpose shall be uniform, and conform to the Ohio Manual of Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways, as set forth in Ohio R.C.
4511.09.
§ 305.06  VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   Any person violating the rules and regulations promulgated in connection
with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
303.99 of the Traffic Code.
CHAPTER 307:  IMPOUNDING AND VEHICLE POUNDS
Section
307.01   Vehicle pounds; creation and supervision
307.02   Storage and towing fees established
307.03   Impounding of vehicles authorized
307.04   Notice of impounded vehicle; obtaining possession
307.05   Fee protest; conditions to obtain possession
307.06   Records of impounding and fees
307.07   Removal and disposal of junk vehicles
 
307.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impounding bicycles, see §
373.12
   Impounding of motor vehicles, see Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.60 et seq.
   Removal of parked vehicles to clean snow from streets, see §
351.16(b)
   Removal of vehicles abandoned on public property, see §
351.13
   Reporting repossessions of motor vehicles, see §
335.17
   See sectional history for familiar state law
§ 307.01  VEHICLE POUNDS; CREATION AND SUPERVISION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to create a vehicle pound or pounds to which
vehicles may be removed by police officers or other authorized persons in the
manner hereinafter provided. Such pound or pounds shall be located in such
places as may be designated by the Mayor, and shall be under the supervision of
the Chief of Police.
§ 307.02  STORAGE AND TOWING FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The storage and towing fees for impounded vehicles shall be as established
by contract.
§ 307.03  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle and/or placement of an automobile immobilization device
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Whenever any vehicle is found parked in a space where parking is
not permitted, is parked illegally or is in a parking meter space beyond the
maximum legal time;
      (2)   When any vehicle or abandoned junk motor vehicle, as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 4513.63, is left on private property for more than 72 consecutive
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without notification
to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving such vehicle in such place.
Prior to disposal of an “abandoned junk motor vehicle”, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4513.63, it shall be photographed by a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and
      (10)   When any vehicle is found which has been the subject of previously
unpaid parking violations.
   (b)   The use of privately owned and operated towing vehicles under the
direction of a member of the Police Department for this purpose is hereby
authorized.
(Ord. 7364, passed 12-18-1979)
§ 307.04  NOTICE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE; OBTAINING POSSESSION.
   It shall be the duty of the police officer or person in charge of any
impounded vehicle to inform the owner or other person claiming an impounded
vehicle of the nature and circumstances of the violation for which the vehicle
was impounded. If the owner or other person claiming the impounded vehicle
furnishes evidence of his or her identity or ownership, together with a receipt
from the Clerk of the Municipal Court, showing payment of all fees for
violations for which the vehicle was impounded as well as the costs of
impounding the vehicle, such impounded vehicle shall be surrendered to him or
her by the person in charge thereof, who shall obtain a signed receipt for such
impounded vehicle.
§ 307.05  FEE PROTEST; CONDITIONS TO OBTAIN POSSESSION.
   (a)   In case protest is made against the payment of any impounding or
storage fee, the person in charge of such impounded vehicle shall surrender the
vehicle to the claimant if:
      (1)   Satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership of person claiming
the vehicle is furnished; and
      (2)   A bond is furnished, in the amount as set by rule of the Municipal
Court, by the owner or driver of such vehicle to the satisfaction of the Clerk
of the Municipal Court; and
      (3)   The bond contains the condition that the owner or driver will
appear before the Municipal Court to answer the violation for which the vehicle
was impounded.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the police officer having knowledge of the
facts of the case to institute the proper proceedings in the Municipal Court,
charging the owner or driver of such vehicle with the violation for which the
vehicle was impounded.
§ 307.06  RECORDS OF IMPOUNDING AND FEES.
   It shall be the duty of the police officer or person in charge of the
vehicle pound to keep the names of all owners of vehicles impounded, the number
of their license tags, the nature and circumstances of each violation and the
disposition of each case. It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance to
account for all fees collected under this chapter.
(Ord. 82-04, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 307.07  REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF JUNK VEHICLES.
   (a)   As used in this section, JUNK VEHICLE means any vehicle, including a
trailer, which is in a rusted, wrecked, discarded, abandoned, dismantled,
partly dismantled or inoperative condition.
   (b)   No person shall place, stand or park a junk vehicle upon any public
street, public ground or upon any private property in the city.
   (c)   Notice of the removal and impounding of the junk vehicle and the time
and place of the proposed sale thereof shall be sent to the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, directed to his or her last known address, if
such owner and an address can be ascertained. If either the owner or an address
for the owner cannot be ascertained, or if such owner cannot be located for the
delivery of such mailed notice, the city shall publish a legal notice of the
removal and impounding of the junk vehicle and the time and place of the
proposed sale thereof once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
If the owner makes no claim to such junk vehicle within ten days of the receipt
of such mailed notice or of the publication of such legal notice, he or she
shall forfeit all rights to such junk vehicle and shall thereby be barred from
asserting any interest therein. Such junk vehicle shall then become the
property of the city to be sold at the time and place specified in the notice.
Provided however any abandoned junk motor vehicle impounded under authority of
§
307.03(b) shall be disposed of as provided in Ohio R.C. 4513.63.
   (d)   Any net proceeds from the sale of such junk vehicles shall be credited
to the General Fund of the city.
§ 307.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general code penalty.)
TITLE 3:  STREETS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
   Chapter
      
311   Street Obstructions and Special Uses
      
313   Traffic-Control Devices
CHAPTER 311:  STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
311.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street
311.02   Parades: permit fee, refusal or revocation
311.04   Play streets
311.03   Toy vehicles on streets
311.05   Games on streets
311.06   Placing snow on streets
 
311.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dropping, sifting and leaking loads, see §
339.08
   See sectional history for similar state law
§ 311.01  PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from the vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (b)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon the
highway, except substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74)
§ 311.02  PARADES: PERMIT FEE, REFUSAL OR REVOCATION.
   (a)   Permit required. No person or persons shall parade or hold a
procession, or attempt to parade or hold a procession, in or upon any of the
streets, park or public grounds of the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor.
   (b)   Driving through parades prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade or other authorized
procession when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade or procession.
   (c)   Permit issuance and approval. Any person or persons desiring to parade
or hold a procession in or upon any street, park or public ground of the city
for any purpose whatsoever shall before parading or holding such procession,
obtain from the Mayor a permit therefor, which shall be issued only upon and
after the approval by the Chief of Police and the Mayor.
   (d)   Form of application. Each application for a permit shall be made out
in duplicate. Each copy shall be signed by the applicant and shall be in such
form as the Mayor shall prescribe. Such application shall be filed with the
Mayor at least five days prior to the date upon which the parade is to be held.
   (e)   Permit fee. For each parade permit issued a fee of $1 shall be paid by
the applicant upon making application. However, if the permit is refused, the
fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (f)   Form of permit. Each permit, when issued, shall have attached a
duplicate copy of the application provided for in division (d) above signed by
the applicant, and each permit shall be in such form as the Mayor shall
prescribe.
   (g)   Permit refusal or revocation. The Mayor may refuse to issue a parade
permit if the applicant or group or organization or persons represented by the
applicant, shall have previously violated provisions of a similar permit, or
shall have violated any city ordinance or laws of the state or of the United
States in connection with a previous parade or procession held within the city.
The Mayor may also refuse to issue a parade permit if:
      (1)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways.
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality.
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality.
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued.
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail.
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (h)   Contracting for special police. The Mayor may condition the permit to
require contracting for special police duty pursuant to §
129.03 of the Administrative Code. A parade permit may be revoked at any time
by the Mayor for the reasons herein set forth, provided that notice of such
revocation shall immediately be given to the applicant, and that within ten
days an appeal may be taken for a hearing before the City Council.
§ 311.03  TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
§ 311.04  PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within the closed area and then the drivers shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
§ 311.05  GAMES ON STREETS.
   No person shall fly a kite or play any game of ball or other game on any
street unless the same has been set aside and authorized for playground
purposes.
§ 311.06  PLACING SNOW ON STREETS.
   No person shall cause or permit snow to be moved, placed or stored over or
upon any portion of a dedicated street, except that snow may be stored upon the
paved or unpaved tree lawn or curb lawn area adjacent to the premises from
which such snow is being removed.
§ 311.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.)
CHAPTER 313:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
313.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
313.011   Civil penalties for automated traffic-control violation systems
313.02   Through streets; stop and yield right-of-way signs
313.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
313.04   Lane-use control signals over individual lanes
313.05   Pedestrian control signals
313.06   Flashing traffic signals
313.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
313.08   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices
313.09   Driver’s duties upon approaching ambiguous or non-working traffic
signal
313.10   Unlawful purchase, possession or sale
 
313.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Designation of through streets or stop intersections, see Ohio R.C. §
4511.65
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. §§
4511.10, 4511.11
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Traffic-control devices defined, see §
301.01
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.09, 4511.11
(D)
§ 313.01  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic- control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (c) below, shall comply with an order of a
peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of an
electronic clearance device.
   (c)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (d)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (e)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE  means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (f)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates division (a) above
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the
offense while distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor
to the commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional
fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) above or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, whoever violates
division (b) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b) above or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, whoever violates
division (b) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If the
offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity is a
contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is subject
to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
§ 313.011  CIVIL PENALTIES FOR AUTOMATED TRAFFIC-CONTROL VIOLATION SYSTEMS.
   (a)   Automated traffic-control violation system - civil violation.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Chapter 313, Traffic-Control Devices, and
Chapter 333, DUI; Willful Misconduct; Speed, the city hereby adopts a civil
enforcement system for traffic signal, sign and speeding violations as outlined
in this section. Said system imposes monetary liability on the owner of a
vehicle for failure of the vehicle operator to comply with traffic control
indications and speed limits in the city in accordance with the provisions of
this section. This section shall be enforceable as an alternative to
enforcement of criminal sanctions under Chapters
313 and
333 of the codified ordinances, and the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Police Department, assisted by the Service Department and the
Department of Law, shall be responsible for administering the Automated
Traffic-Control Violation System. Specifically, the city shall be empowered to
install video and electronic traffic control and speeding detection systems
within the city. The Police Department shall also maintain a list of system
locations where traffic control and speeding detection systems are installed,
and shall make the determination as to which locations will be utilized.
      (3)   Any citation for an automated traffic control violation system
violation pursuant to this section, known as a “notice of liability” shall:
         A.   Be processed by officials or agents of the Police Department;
         B.   Be forwarded by first-class mail or personal service to the
vehicle’s registered owner’s address as given on the state’s motor vehicle
registration; and
         C.   Clearly state the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
   (b)   Definitions.
      (1)   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC- CONTROL VIOLATION SYSTEM . The equivalent of
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL MONITORING DEVICE or TRAFFIC-CONTROL PHOTOGRAPHIC SYSTEM
. Said system/device is an electronic system consisting of a photographic,
video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor installed to work alone or in
conjunction with an official traffic controller and to automatically produce
photographs, video or digital images of each vehicle violating a traffic-
control signal device or speed limit.
      (2)   IN OPERATION.  Operating in good working condition.
      (3)   SYSTEM LOCATION.  The approach to an intersection or a street
toward which a photographic, video or electronic camera is directed and is in
operation. It is the LOCATION where the automated camera system is installed to
monitor offenses under this section.
      (4)   VEHICLE OWNER.  The person or entity identified by the state’s
Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or registered with any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle.
   (c)   Offense.
      (1)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty
imposed pursuant to this section if such vehicle crosses a marked stop line or
the intersection plane at a system location when the traffic signal facing that
vehicle’s direction is emitting a steady red light.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty
imposed pursuant to this section if such vehicle is operated at a speed in
excess of those set forth in §
333.03 of this city’s codified ordinances or by the R.C. § 4511.21.
      (3)   It is prima facie evidence that the person registered as owner of
the vehicle with the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles (or with any other state
or county vehicle registration office) was operating the vehicle at the time of
the offense set out in division (c)(1) above.
      (4)   Notwithstanding above (c)(3) above, the owner of the vehicle shall
not be responsible for the violation if, within 21 days from the date listed on
the “notice of liability”, as set forth in division (a)(3) above, the owner
furnishes the Hearing Officer:
         A.   An affidavit stating the name and address of the person or entity
who leased, rented or otherwise had the care, custody and control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation; or
         B.   A law enforcement incident report/general offense report from any
state or local law enforcement agency/record bureau stating that the vehicle
involved was reported stolen before the time of the violation.
      (5)   An imposition of liability under the section shall not be deemed a
conviction as an operator and shall not be made part of the operating record of
whom such liability is imposed.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability
of an operator of a vehicle for any violation of divisions (c)(1) or (c)(2)
above.
      (7)   This section shall not apply to violations involving vehicle
collisions.
   (d)   Penalty; administrative appeal.
      (1)   Any violation of division (c)(1) above shall be deemed a
noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of $105 shall be assessed and
for which no points authorized by R.C. § 4510.036 (point system for license
suspension) shall be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any violation of division (c)(2) above shall be deemed a
noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of $95 shall be assessed and
for which no points authorized by R.C. § 4510.036 (point system for license
suspension) shall be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle.
      (3)   The city may establish procedures for the collection of the civil
penalties imposed herein, and may enforce the penalties by a civil action in
the nature of a debt.
      (4)   A notice of appeal shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within
21 days from the date listed on the “notice of liability”. The failure to give
notice of appeal or pay the civil penalty within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the citation and will be considered
an admission. Appeals shall be heard through an administrative process
established by the city. A decision in favor of the city may be enforced by
means of a civil action or any other means provided by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 07-06, passed 2-8-2006; Ord. 07-18, passed 5-31-2018)
§ 313.02  THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (a)   All state routes are hereby designated as through streets or highways,
provided that stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be
erected at all intersections with such through streets or highways, except as
otherwise provided in this section. Where two or more state routes that are
through streets or highways intersect and no traffic- control signal is in
operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at one or more entrances
thereto by the state’s Department of Transportation, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
   (b)   Whenever the state’s Director of Transportation determines on the
basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary
to stop traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing
in this section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When
circumstances warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways
intersecting through highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the
Director either installs or removes a stop sign under this division (b), he or
she shall give notice, in writing, of that proposed action to the municipality
at least 30 days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (c)   Other streets or highways or portions thereof, are hereby designated
through streets or highways, if they are within the municipality, if they have
a continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of such street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have “stop” or “yield” signs or
traffic-control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting
streets or highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of such street or
highway or portion thereof, shall be a municipal corporation line, the physical
terminus of the street or highway or any point on such street or highway at
which vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or
yield to traffic on the intersecting street, provided that in residence
districts the municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway,
or portion thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected
residence district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices.
Where two or more streets or highways designated under this division (c)
intersect and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield
signs shall be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the state’s
Department of Transportation or by Council or the authorized local authority,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (d)   Stop signs need not be erected at intersections so constructed as to
permit traffic to safely enter a through street or highway without coming to a
stop. Signs shall be erected at such intersections indicating that the operator
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic
proceeding on the through street or highway.
   (e)   The City Council hereby designates additional through streets as
follows, and shall erect stop or yield signs in all streets intersecting such
through streets unless traffic-control signals have been placed at such
intersections: Euclid Avenue from southerly to northeasterly corporate limits;
Superior Road from Euclid Avenue to easterly corporate limits; Superior Avenue
from Euclid Avenue to westerly corporate limits; Forest Hills Boulevard from
Euclid Avenue to easterly corporate limits, except at Lee Boulevard; Lee
Boulevard from Euclid Avenue to southerly corporate limits, except northbound
traffic shall stop at Glynn Road; Coit Avenue from Euclid to Elm Avenues; East
152nd Street from Coit Avenue to northerly corporate limits; Noble Road from
East 152nd Street to southerly corporate limits, except at Euclid Avenue;
Belvoir Boulevard from northerly to easterly corporate limits, except at
Hillsboro Road; Hillsboro Road from Euclid Avenue to Belvoir Boulevard;
Northvale Boulevard from Forest Hills Boulevard to easterly corporate limits,
except westbound traffic shall yield to Forest Hills Boulevard traffic; and
Ivanhoe Road from Euclid Avenue to northwesterly corporate limits.
   (f)   Eddy Road from Euclid Avenue to northerly corporate limits is hereby
designated to be a non-through street.
(Ord. 6878, passed 7-20-1976; Ord. 7413, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 313.03  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (a)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
are permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic-control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, are permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u- turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         A.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         B.   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic-control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (b)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
are thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will
be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)
(3) of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic-control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic-control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one- way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (d)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic- control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such movement as is
permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn,
shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic-
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (f)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic-control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic-control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (g)   Traffic signal at location other than an intersection. In the event an
official traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than
an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as
to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop
shall be made at the signal.
   (h)   Exception. This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be
governed by R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 313.04  LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNALS OVER INDIVIDUAL LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (a)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (b)   A steady yellow “x”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “x” signal indication.
   (c)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (d)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (e)   A steady red “x”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 313.05  PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (a)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (b)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic-control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (c)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (e)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 313.06  FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (a)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow traffic signal is used
in a traffic signal or with a traffic sign it shall require obedience as
follows:
      (1)   Flashing Red Stop Signal: Operators of vehicles shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering it, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing Yellow Caution Signal: Operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (b)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
Ohio R.C. 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 313.07  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal; and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 313.08  ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
divisions (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of divisions (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of divisions (a)(1) or (a)(3)
of this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased,
or controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 313.09  DRIVER’S DUTIES UPON APPROACHING AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC
SIGNAL.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic- control signals shall do all of the following, if the
signal facing him or her either exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted
arrows or exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly
indicate the assignment of right-of-way or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an
electric bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure
of a vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric
bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways.
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 313.10  UNLAWFUL PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR SALE.
   (a)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE  means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (b)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (c)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 313.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.)
TITLE 5:  VEHICLES
   Chapter
      
331   Operation Generally
      
333   DUI; Willful Misconduct; Speed
      
335   Licensing; Accidents
      
337   Safety and Equipment
      
339   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
      
341   Commercial Drivers
CHAPTER 331:  OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
331.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
331.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
331.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
331.04   Overtaking and passing upon right
331.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center
331.06   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
331.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
331.08   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
331.09   Following too closely
331.10   Turning at intersections
331.11   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
331.12   “U” turns restricted
331.13   Starting and backing vehicles
331.14   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping
331.15   Hand and arm signals
331.16   Right-of-way at intersections
331.17   Right-of-way when turning left
331.18   Operation of vehicle at stop and yield signs
331.19   Operation of vehicle at stop signs
331.20   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs
331.21   Right-of-way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle
331.22   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway: duty to yield
331.23   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway: stopping at
sidewalk
331.24   Right-of-way of funeral procession
331.25   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
331.26   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
331.27   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles
331.28   Driving over fire hose
331.29   Driving through safety zone
331.30   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
331.31   Driving upon divided roadways
331.32   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
331.33   Obstructing intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing
331.34   Failure to control; weaving; full time and attention
331.35   Occupying a moving trailer or manufactured or mobile home
331.36   Squealing tires, “peeling”, cracking exhaust noises
331.37   Driving upon sidewalks, street lawns or curbs
331.38   Stopping for school bus; discharging children
331.39   Driving across grade crossing
331.40   Stopping at grade crossing
331.41   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic-control devices
331.42   Littering from motor vehicle
331.43   Wearing earplugs or earphones prohibited
 
331.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §
313.01
   Operation of bicycles and motorcycles, see §§
373.01 et seq.
   School bus operation, see OAC Ch. 4501-3
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 331.01  DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing those
movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (b)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
the passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn;
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (b)(1) above requires a driver of a slower
vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a faster
vehicle.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (a)(2) above. This division shall not be
construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making a left turn
into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 331.02  PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 331.03  OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (a)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (a)(3) below, signal
to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 331.04  OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (1)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 331.05  OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 331.06  ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 331.07  HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or centerline of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of the zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or centerline of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 331.08  DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of that allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of the signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 331.09  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (a) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 331.10  TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules.
   (a)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (c)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane of
the roadway being entered lawfully available to the traffic moving in that
lane.
   (d)   Markers, buttons or signs may be placed within or adjacent to
intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
and when such markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle
shall turn such vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required
by such markers, buttons or signs.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
   (f)   The center lane of five lanes for motor vehicle traffic in both
directions on any seven lane highway or roadway within the limits of the city
is reserved as a left turning lane only. The center lane shall not be entered
except for making left turns as is hereinafter provided except when directed by
a police officer. Entry into such lane for left turns shall not be made more
than 200 feet from the point of turning except that such 200 feet entryway
shall not be intersected by a street intersecting from the left side.
(Ord. 7357, passed 11-20-1979)
§ 331.11  TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway or building.
§ 331.12  “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (b) below, no
vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if the vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (b)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 331.13  STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         A.   In a rest area;
         B.   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         C.   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of
a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (1)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 331.14  SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 331.15  HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, all signals required by the
provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm, shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and the signals
shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   As an alternative to division (a)(2) above, a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right
hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle or electric
bicycle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 331.16  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (a) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 331.17  RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 331.18  OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.43(B))
§ 331.19  OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.43(A))
§ 331.20  EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 331.21  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive, if practical, to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, “coroner’s vehicle” means a
vehicle used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is
equipped with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a
siren, exhaust whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (e), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a
first offense. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (e)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (a) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   A.   Upon receipt of a report under division (e)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         B.   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (a) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         C.   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section based on a
report filed under division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         B.   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(a) of this section based on a report filed under division (e)(1) above does
not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s right to
contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court to
answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt that
the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who filed
the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (e):
         A.   “License plate.” Includes any temporary license placard issued
under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another jurisdiction.
         B.   “Public safety vehicle.” Does not include an unmarked public
safety vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other
person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle
used by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and
rules of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 331.22  DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY: DUTY TO YIELD.
   (a)   Subject to compliance with any traffic- control device, the operator
of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley or from any place
other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 331.23  DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY: STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   (a)   Subject to compliance with any traffic-control device, the driver of a
vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or driveway within a
business or residence district shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across the alley,
building entrance, road or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area,
shall stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic thereon.
   (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.431)
§ 331.24  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION  means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in
the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is
displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each
vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from
any direction.
   (b)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of- way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 331.25  DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic; nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 331.26  DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (a)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (b)
(1) above is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must appear in
person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or
more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a)
above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         B.   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (b) above shall order
the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any such rescuer
incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of transporting the rescued
person to a hospital or other facility for treatment of injuries, up to a
cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was involved in the
emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement proportionately,
according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial sanction imposed under
this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and, subject to a
determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may collect the
financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION.  Has the same meanings as
in R.C. § 9.60.
      (2)   FIREFIGHTING AGENCY.  Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (3)   PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY.  Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (4)   RESCUER.  Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 331.27  FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet,
or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer
or a firefighter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.72)
§ 331.28  DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (1)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 331.29  DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 331.30  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 331.31  DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 331.32  ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
§ 331.33  OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION, CROSSWALK OR GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 331.34  FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle without exercising reasonable and
ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle in a weaving or zigzag course unless
such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a vehicle without giving his or her full time
and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
§ 331.35  OCCUPYING A MOVING TRAILER OR MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME.
   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 331.36  SQUEALING TIRES, “PEELING”, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
the vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling”.
§ 331.37  DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, STREET LAWNS OR CURBS.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an electric
bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area, except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.711)
§ 331.38  STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; DISCHARGING CHILDREN.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until the
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (b) below.
   (b)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever, but only whenever, the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (c)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (a) above.
   (d)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (e)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (a) above is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive
the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead must appear
in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
Court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      (2)   SCHOOL BUS.  As used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and
displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber
and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective
of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term
does not include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective
of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 331.39  DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         A.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         B.   A crossing gate is lowered.
         C.   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         D.   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         E.   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         F.   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely negotiate
the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)(1)F. above exist at the crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 331.40  STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this below, the
operator of any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material
required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 185, before crossing at
grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped,
shall listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions
along the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after
stopping, looking and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding,
the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing,
and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
      (2)   This division (a) does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
      (3)   As used in this division (a), the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   BUS. Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
         B.   EXEMPT CROSSING.  A highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
         C.   SCHOOL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle used for the transportation of
pupils to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned
or operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this division (a) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this
division (a) or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77
or 4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
   (b)   (1)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE
means signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed
at a public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an
electrical circuit.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
      (3)   A.   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at
a railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
            1.   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
            2.   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
         B.   Division (b)(3)A. above does not apply to a railroad highway
grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from that
division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
      (4)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to divisions (b)(2) or (b)(3)
above, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than 15,
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due care
before proceeding across such grade crossing.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (6)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 331.41  SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for the
purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle across public or private property
for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control device.
   (c)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
§ 331.42  LITTERING FROM MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (c)   As used in this section, LITTER  means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (d)   Whoever violates divisions (a) or (b) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82)
§ 331.43  WEARING EARPLUGS OR EARPHONES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES  means any
headset, radio, tape player or other similar device that provides the listener
with radio programs, music or other recorded information through a device
attached to the head and that covers all or a portion of both ears. EARPHONES
does not include speakers or other listening devices that are built into
protective headgear.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person operating equipment for use in the maintenance or repair
of any highway; and
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 331.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.)
CHAPTER 333:  DUI; WILLFUL MISCONDUCT; SPEED
Section
333.01   Driving or physical control while under the influence; evidence
333.02   Operation in willful or wanton disregard of safety
333.03   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead
333.031   Approaching a stationary public safety vehicle
333.04   Stopping vehicle; slow speed; posted minimum speeds
333.05   Speed limitations over bridges
333.06   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles
333.07   Street racing prohibited
333.08   Operation without reasonable control
333.09   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property
 
333.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol defined, see Ohio R.C. 4301.01(B)(1)
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22(B),
4511.23
   Drug of abuse defined, see Ohio R.C. 3719.011(A)
   Failure to control vehicle, see §
331.34
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Walking on highway while under the influence, see §
371.09
§ 333.01  DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE; EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle, streetcar or trackless
trolley within this state if, at the time of the operation, any of the
following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them;
         B.   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         C.   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
         D.   The person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one gram or
more but less than seventeen-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per
210 liters of the person’s breath;
         E.   The person has a concentration of eleven-hundredths of one gram
or more but less than two hundred thirty-eight-thousandths of one gram by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine;
         F.   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         G.   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma;
         H.   The person has a concentration of seventeen-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         I.   The person has a concentration of two hundred thirty-eight-
thousandths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the
person’s urine; or
         J.   The person has a concentration of any of the following controlled
substances or metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the
following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma;
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma;
            7.   The person has a concentration of marijuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marijuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marijuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marijuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and, as measured by gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, the person has a concentration of marijuana metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marijuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marijuana metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of
marijuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma.
               b.   As measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry, the
person has a concentration of marijuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at
least 35 nanograms of marijuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of marijuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of marijuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least one hundred nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma; or
            11.   The state board of pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle, streetcar or trackless trolley within this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(a)(2)A. below, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division, a violation of divisions (a)(1) or (b) of this
section, or any other equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle, streetcar or trackless trolley within this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them; and
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle, streetcar
or trackless trolley as described in division (a)(2)A. above, being asked by a
law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. §
4511.191, and being advised by the officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192
of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission to the test or tests,
refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle, streetcar
or trackless trolley within this state, if, at the time of the operation, any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one
gram but less than eight-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per 210
liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least twenty-eight one-
thousandths of one gram but less than eleven-hundredths of one gram by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (c)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(2) and a violation of division (b)
(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) above, but the person may not be convicted of more than
one violation of these divisions.
   (d)   (1)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (a)(1)A. above or for an equivalent offense that is
vehicle related, the result of any test of any blood or urine withdrawn and
analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02, may be
admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other relevant and
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant.
         B.   1.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for
a violation of division (a) or (b) above or for an equivalent offense that is
vehicle-related, the court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol,
drugs of abuse, controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance,
or a combination of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as
shown by chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the
time of the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this
division regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-
hour time limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time
during which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in
that section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol,
drugs of abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a
person submits to a blood, breath, urine or other bodily substance test at the
request of a law enforcement officer under R.C. § 4511.191 or a blood or urine
sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a registered
nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency medical
technician-paramedic or a qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist shall
withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the alcohol, drug,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or combination
content of the whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma. This limitation does
not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person authorized to
withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood under this
division if, in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the person would
be endangered by the withdrawing of blood.
            2.   The bodily substance withdrawn under division (d)(1)B. of this
section shall be analyzed in accordance with methods approved by the Director
of Health by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the Director
pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         C.   As used in division (d)(1)B. above, EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) above, or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-
related, if there was at the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a
concentration of less than the applicable concentration of alcohol specified in
divisions (a)(1)B., (a)(1)C., (a)(1)D. and (a)(1)E. above or less than the
applicable concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance specified for a violation of division (a)
(1)J. above, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (b) above or for an equivalent offense that is
substantially equivalent to that division.
      (3)   A.   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of
the chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s
attorney, immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis.
         B.   If the chemical test was obtained pursuant to division (d)(1)B.
above, the person tested may have a physician, a registered nurse or a
qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing
administer a chemical test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to
any administered at the request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was
under arrest as described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an
independent chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was
under arrest other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read
to the person to be tested, as required under R.C. § 4511.192, shall state that
the person may have an independent test performed at the person’s expense. The
failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a person shall
not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the chemical test or tests
taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   A.   As used in divisions (d)(4)B. and (d)(4)C. above, NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION  means the national highway traffic
safety administration established as an administration of the United States
Department of Transportation under 96 Stat 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C.A. § 105.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) above, of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or
a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine, if a law enforcement officer has administered a field
sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in the violation and if
it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the officer administered the
test in substantial compliance with the testing standards for any reliable,
credible and generally accepted field sobriety tests that were in effect at the
time the tests were administered, including, but not limited to, any testing
standards then in effect that were set by the national highway traffic safety
administration, all of the following apply.
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (d)(4)B.1. or (d)(4)B.2. above, and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the rules of evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         C.   Division (D)(4)B. above does not limit or preclude a court, in
its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by probable
cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal prosecution or
juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division, from
considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by division
(d)(4)B. above.
   (e)   (1)   Subject to division (e)(3) below, in any criminal prosecution or
juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (a)(1)B. to (a)(1)J. or
(b)(1) to (b)(4) above or for an equivalent offense that is substantially
equivalent to any of those divisions, a laboratory report from any laboratory
personnel issued a permit by the Department of Health authorizing an analysis
as described in this division that contains an analysis of the whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or other bodily substance tested and that
contains all of the information specified in this division shall be admitted as
prima facie evidence of the information and statements that the report
contains. The laboratory report shall contain all of the following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director or a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties; and
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (e)(1) above is not
admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding, other
than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the prosecutor
has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if the
defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (e)(1) above shall not
be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any substance
if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains or the
defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (f)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic or qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.191 or
4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station or clinic at which blood is
withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.191 or
4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability based upon a
claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a claim of
malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the person. The
immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency medical service
organization that employs an emergency medical technician-intermediate or
emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood under this section.
The immunity provided in this division is not available to a person who
withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton misconduct.
      (2)   As used in this division, EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE
and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4765.01.
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of divisions (a)(1)A. to (a)(1)I.
or (a)(2) above is guilty of operating a vehicle under the influence of
alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever violates division
(a)(1)J. above is guilty of operating a vehicle while under the influence of a
listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance.
The court shall sentence the offender for either offense under R.C. Chapter
2929, except as otherwise authorized or required by divisions (g)(1)A. to (g)
(1)C. below.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (g)(1)B. to (g)(1)C.
below, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, and the
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of division
(a)(1)A. to  (a)(1)E., or (a)(1)J. of this section, a mandatory jail term of
three consecutive days. As used in this division, three consecutive days means
72 consecutive hours. The court may sentence an offender to both an
intervention program and a jail term. The court may impose a jail term in
addition to the three-day mandatory jail term or intervention program. However,
in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six
months. The court may suspend the execution of the three-day jail term under
this division if the court, in lieu of that suspended term, places the offender
under a community control sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.25 and requires the
offender to attend, for three consecutive days, a drivers’ intervention program
certified under R.C. § 5119.01. The court also may suspend the execution of any
part of the three-day jail term under this division if it places the offender
under a community control sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.25 for part of the
three days, requires the offender to attend for the suspended part of the term
a drivers’ intervention program so certified, and sentences the offender to a
jail term equal to the remainder of the three consecutive days that the
offender does not spend attending the program. The court may require the
offender, as a condition of community control and in addition to the required
attendance at a drivers’ intervention program, to attend and satisfactorily
complete any treatment or education programs that comply with the minimum
standards adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 5119 by the Director of Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services that the operators of the drivers’ intervention program
determine that the offender should attend and to report periodically to the
court on the offender’s progress in the programs. The court also may impose on
the offender any other conditions of community control that it considers
necessary;
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of divisions
(a)(1)F. to (a)(1)I. or division (a)(2) above, except as otherwise provided in
this division, a mandatory jail term of at least three consecutive days and a
requirement that the offender attend, for three consecutive days, a drivers’
intervention program that is certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.01. As used in
this division, three consecutive days means 72 consecutive hours. If the court
determines that the offender is not conducive to treatment in a drivers’
intervention program, if the offender refuses to attend a drivers’ intervention
program, or if the jail at which the offender is to serve the jail term imposed
can provide a driver’s intervention program, the court shall sentence the
offender to a mandatory jail term of at least six consecutive days. The court
may require the offender, under a community control sanction imposed under R.C.
§ 2929.25, to attend and satisfactorily complete any treatment or education
programs that comply with the minimum standards adopted pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 5119 by the director of alcohol and drug addiction services, in
addition to the required attendance at drivers’ intervention program, that the
operators of the drivers’ intervention program determine that the offender
should attend and to report periodically to the court on the offender’s
progress in the programs. The court also may impose any other conditions of
community control on the offender that it considers necessary;
            3.   In all cases, a fine of not less than $375 and not more than
$1,075; and
            4.   In all cases, a class five license suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in of R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). The
court may grant limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under
R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in §
303.99 of this chapter, an offender who, within ten years of the offense,
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division
(a) or (b) above or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the
following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of division
(a)(1)A. to (a)(1)E., or (a)(1)J. of this section, a mandatory jail term of ten
consecutive days. The court shall impose the ten-day mandatory jail term under
this division unless, subject §
303.99 of this chapter, it instead imposes a sentence under that division
consisting of both a jail term and a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The court may impose a jail term
in addition to the ten-day mandatory jail term. The cumulative jail term
imposed for the offense shall not exceed six months. In addition to the jail
term or the term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both types of monitoring and jail term, the court shall
require the offender to be assessed by an alcohol and drug treatment program,
subject to division (i) of this section, and shall order the offender to follow
the treatment recommendations of the program. The purpose of the assessment is
to determine the degree of the offender’s alcohol usage and to determine
whether or not treatment is warranted. Upon the request of the court, the
program shall submit the results of the assessment to the court, including all
treatment recommendations and clinical diagnoses related to alcohol use;
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of division
(a)(1)F. to (a)(1)I. or division (a)(2) above, except as otherwise provided in
this division, a mandatory jail term of 20 consecutive days. The court shall
impose the 20-day mandatory jail term under this division unless, subject to §
303.99 of this chapter, it instead imposes a sentence under that division
consisting of both a jail term and a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The court may impose a jail term
in addition to the 20-day mandatory jail term. The cumulative jail term imposed
for the offense shall not exceed six months. In addition to the jail term or
the term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol
monitoring, or both types of monitoring and jail term, the court shall require
the offender to be assessed by an alcohol and drug treatment program, subject
to division (i) of this section, and shall order the offender to follow the
treatment recommendations of the program. The purpose of the assessment is to
determine the degree of the offender’s alcohol usage and to determine whether
or not treatment is warranted. Upon the request of the court, the program shall
submit the results of the assessment to the court, including all treatment
recommendations and clinical diagnoses related to alcohol use;
            3.   In all cases, notwith- standing the fines set forth in R.C.
Chapter 2929, a fine of not less than $525 and not more than $1,625;
            4.   In all cases, a class four license suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(4) of R.C. § 4510.02. The court may grant limited
driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and
4510.13; and
            5.   In all cases, if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s
name, immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense for 90 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233 and impoundment of the license plates of that
vehicle for 90 days.
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in §
303.99 of this chapter, an offender who, within ten years of the offense,
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of
division (a) or (b) above or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
            1.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of division
(a)(1)A. to (a)(1)E., or (a)(1)J. above, a mandatory jail term of 30
consecutive days. The court shall impose the 30-day mandatory jail term under
this division unless, subject to §
303.99 of this chapter, it instead imposes a sentence under that division
consisting of both a jail term and a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The court may impose a jail term
in addition to the 30-day mandatory jail term. Notwithstanding the jail terms
set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the additional jail term shall not
exceed one year, and the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense shall not
exceed one year;
            2.   If the sentence is being imposed for a violation of division
(a)(1)F. to (a)(1)I. or division (a)(2) of this section, a mandatory jail term
of 60 consecutive days. The court shall impose the 60-day mandatory jail term
under this division unless, subject to §
303.99 of this chapter, it instead imposes a sentence under that division
consisting of both a jail term and a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring. The court may impose a jail term
in addition to the 60-day mandatory jail term. Notwithstanding the jail terms
set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the additional jail term shall not
exceed one year, and the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense shall not
exceed one year;
            3.   In all cases, notwith- standing the fines set forth in R.C.
Chapter 2929, a fine of not less than $850 and not more than $2,750;
            4.   In all cases, a class three license suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(3). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13;
            5.   In all cases, if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s
name, criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense in accordance
with R.C. § 4503.234. This division applies regarding any vehicle that is
subject to an order of criminal forfeiture under this division; and
            6.   In all cases, the court shall order the offender to
participate in an alcohol and drug addiction program, subject to division (l)
of this section, and shall order the offender to follow the treatment
recommendations of the program. The operator of the program shall determine and
assess the degree of the offender’s alcohol dependency and shall make
recommendations for treatment. Upon the request of the court, the program shall
submit the results of the assessment to the court, including all treatment
recommendations and clinical diagnoses related to alcohol use.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in §
303.99 of this chapter, an offender who, within ten years of the offense,
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or four violations
of division (a) or (b) above or other equivalent offenses or an offender who,
within 20 years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony of the
fourth degree and the case shall be prosecuted under the appropriate state law.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 4-12-2012; Ord. 20-19, passed 4-2-2019)  Penalty, see §
333.99
§ 333.02  OPERATION IN WILLFUL OR WANTON DISREGARD OF SAFETY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) above does not apply to the competitive operation
of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of the property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.20, 4511.201)
§ 333.03  MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (b)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following.
      (1)   A.   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours,
and when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected, except that on
controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has
been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by
division (b)(4) below, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line fence has been
erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by divisions
(b)(10) and (b)(11) below. The end of every school zone may be marked by a sign
indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section or in the Manual and
Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices shall be
construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs equipped with
flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the hours in which
the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         B.   As used in this section, SCHOOL means any school chartered under
R.C. § 3301.16 and any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone. SCHOOL also includes a
special elementary school that in writing requests the County Engineer to
create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon receipt of the written
request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone at that location by
erecting appropriate signs.
         C.   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (b)(1)C.1. through (b)(1)C.3. below
shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction; and/or
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (b)
(1)A. and (b)(1)C. of this section.
         E.   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         F.   As used in this section, RESTRICTED HOURS  means the hours of 7:
30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. inclusive on the days that the city schools are in
session.
         G.   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         H.   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL  means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source;
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade;
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation;
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood; and
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of the municipality, except
on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside business
districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within the
municipality outside business districts, except as provided in divisions (b)(4)
and (b)(6) below;
      (4)   Fifty mph on controlled-access highways and expressways within the
municipality;
      (5)   Fifty-five mph on highways outside the municipality, other than
highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (b)(8) below,
highways as provided in divisions (b)(9) and (b)(10) below, and highways,
expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (b)(13), (b)(14), (b)(15) and
(b)(17) below;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within the municipality outside urban
districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as further provided
in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside the municipality that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five mph on through highways, except state routes that are
outside municipal corporations and that are within a national park with
boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty mph on two-lane state routes outside municipal corporations
as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five mph at all times on freeways with paved shoulders
inside the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (b)(15)
and (b)(17) below;
      (12)   Fifty-five mph at all times on freeways outside the municipality,
other than freeways as provided in divisions (b)(15) and (b)(17) below;
      (13)   Sixty mph for operators of any motor vehicle at all times on all
portions of rural divided highways;
      (14)   Sixty-five mph for operators of any motor vehicle at all times on
all rural expressways without traffic-control signals;
      (15)   Seventy mph for operators of any motor vehicle at all times on all
rural freeways;
      (16)   Fifty-five mph for operators of any motor vehicle at all times on
all portions of freeways in congested areas as determined by the Director and
that are part of the interstate system and are located within a municipal
corporation or within an interstate freeway outerbelt; and
      (17)   Sixty-five mph for operators of any motor vehicle at all times on
all portions of freeways in urban areas as determined by the Director and that
are part of the interstate system and are part of an interstate freeway
outerbelt.
   (c)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)
(8) and (b)(9) above or any declared or established pursuant to this section by
the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to exceed
any of the speed limitations in division (d) below. No person shall be
convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct,
although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged
in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (d)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 mph, except upon a two-lane state route as
provided in division (b)(10) above and upon a highway, expressway or freeway as
provided in divisions (b)(13), (b)(14), (b)(15) and (b)(17) above;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 mph upon a two-lane state route as provided
in division (b)(10) above and upon a highway as provided in division (b)(13)
above;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 mph upon an expressway as provided in
division (b)(14) above or upon a freeway as provided in division (b)(17) above,
except upon a freeway as provided in division (b)(15) above;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 mph upon a freeway as provided in division
(b)(15) above; or
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (e)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (c) of this section also the speed which division (b)(1)A., (b)
(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of the alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (f)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (d) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4),
(b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) above, or of a limit declared or established
pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (d) above. If the court finds a
violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8)
or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this section or
R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction under that
division and dismiss the charge under division (d) above. If it finds no
violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8)
or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this section or
R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the evidence supports a
conviction under division (d) above.
   (g)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (d) above in accordance with R.C. §
4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (h)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on those signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon the signs.
   (i)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      (2)   INTERSTATE SYSTEM.  Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      (3)   NONCOMMERCIAL BUS.  Includes, but is not limited to, a school bus
or a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      (4)   OUTERBELT.  A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate
system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or
group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (5)   RURAL.  Outside urbanized areas, as designated in accordance with
23 U.S.C. § 101, and outside of a business or urban district.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (j)   (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (j)(1)B., (j)(1)C., and
(j)(2) and (j)(3) above, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree; or
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that
section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of
that section, and operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 mph in a business
district of the municipality, faster than 50 mph in other portions of the
municipality, or faster than 35 mph in a school zone during recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during the school’s opening or closing
hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (j)(1) above, if the offender operated a
motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by
law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender alleges, in
an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s sentencing, that the
offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
division and if the court determines that the offender is an indigent person
and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))  (Ord. 28-10, passed 5-5-2010)  Penalty, see §
333.99
§ 333.031  APPROACHING A STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle that is displaying a flashing red light, flashing combination
red and white light, oscillating or rotating red light, oscillating or rotating
combination red and white light, flashing blue light, flashing combination blue
and white light, oscillating or rotating blue light, or oscillating or rotating
combination blue and white light, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a street or
highway that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same
direction of travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall
proceed with due caution and, if possible with due regard to the road, weather,
and traffic conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to
that of the stationary public safety vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a street or highway of a type
described in division (a)(1) above, or if the driver is traveling on a highway
of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be
unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the
motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (c)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above when so required by division (a) above.
(R.C. § 4511.231)
   (d)   Notwithstanding §
303.99(b) upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle in violation of
this section, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
§ 333.04  STOPPING VEHICLE; SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (b)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or local
authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall operate
a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be less than 30
mph, greater than 50 mph, nor effective until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, relating to appropriate
signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities have obtained the approval of
the Director.
   (c)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 333.05  SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to the bridge or
structure, when the structure is posted with signs as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that the structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this traffic code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which the structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating the maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of the signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to the bridge or structure.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 333.06  SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 333.07  STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of the prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (b)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 333.08  OPERATION WITHOUT REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 333.09  RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway without due
regard for the safety of persons or property.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private property
other than streets or highways, without due regard for the safety of persons or
property.
   (c)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the owner of such property knowingly permits
such operation thereon.
§ 333.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 335:  LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
Section
335.01   Driver’s license or commercial driver’s license required
335.011   Surrender of driver’s license from another state
335.02   Possession of more than one license prohibited
335.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit; curfew
335.031   Driving with probationary license; curfew
335.04   Certain acts prohibited
335.05   Wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle
335.06   Display of license
335.07   Driving under suspension or license restriction
335.071   Driving under OVI suspension
335.072   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation
335.073   Driving without complying with license reinstatement requirements
335.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title
335.09   Display of license plates
335.10   Expired or unlawful license plates
335.11   Use of illegal license plates; transfer of registration
335.12   Stopping after accident upon streets; collision with unattended
vehicle
335.13   Stopping after accident upon property other than street
335.14   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
335.15   Loan or sale of license plates
335.16   Failure of seller to use proper license plates
335.17   Reporting repossessions of motor vehicles
335.18   Reporting unclaimed motor vehicles
335.19   Reporting unused license plates
 
335.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Deposit of driver’s license as bond, see Ohio R.C. 2937.221
   Driver’s license law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4507
   Glass removal from street after accident, see §
311.01
   Motor vehicle licensing law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4503
   Motorized bicycle operator’s license, see Ohio R.C. 4511.521
   Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4510
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   State accident reports, see Ohio R.C. 4509.01(J), 4509.06, 4509.74, 5502.11
   State point system suspension, see Ohio R.C. 4510.03.6
§ 335.01  DRIVER’S LICENSE OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this state unless the person has a
valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial driver’s
license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this state unless the person has a valid license
as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the registrar of
motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in the form of an
endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted license as provided
in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of division
(a)(1) above or a valid license as a motorcycle operator either in the form of
an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or a restricted
license at the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(2) above. The
person charged with a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above may offer
evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that
section to serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of
an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case, if the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (e)   If the offender is sentenced under division (c)(2) above, if within
three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was expired for more than
six months at the time of the offense, the court may impose a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(Ord. 08-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.011  SURRENDER OF DRIVER’S LICENSE FROM ANOTHER STATE.
   (a)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license issued by another
state to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a
person intends to operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways,
the person shall apply for a driver’s license in this state. If the person
fails to apply for a driver’s license within 30 days of becoming a resident,
the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in this state under a license
issued by another state.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under division (a)(2) of this section is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (c)   For purposes of division (a) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 335.02  POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking knowing the operator does not have a valid driver’s
license issued to the operator by the registrar of motor vehicles under this
chapter or a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this division
is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
303.99 of the municipal code, except that the offender shall not be sentenced
to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential
sanction pursuant to §
303.99 of the municipal code; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the
offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3),
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to
complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt.
         B.   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, unless and
until the person surrenders to the registrar all valid licenses issued to the
person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The registrar shall
report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority. No
person shall be permitted to have more than one valid license at any time.
   (b)   (1)   A.   If a person is convicted of a violation of §§
335.07,
335.071,
335.072 when division (g)(2) and (g)(3) of that section applies, or §
335.073 of the municipal code or if R.C. § 4507.164(F) applies, the trial judge
of any court, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by
law or ordinance, may impound the identification license plates of any motor
vehicle registered in the name of the person. If a person is convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4510.16, and division (G)(1) of that section applies, the
trial judge of any court, in addition to or independent of any other penalties
provided by law or ordinance, may impound the identification license plates of
any motor vehicle registered in the name of the person. The court shall send
the impounded license plates to the registrar, who may retain the license
plates until the driver’s or commercial driver’s license of the owner has been
reinstated or destroy them pursuant to R.C. § 4503.232.
         B.   If the license plates of a person convicted of a violation of any
provision of those sections have been impounded in accordance with the
provisions of this division, the court shall notify the registrar of that
action. The notice shall contain the name and address of the driver, the serial
number of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license, the serial numbers of
the license plates of the motor vehicle, and the length of time for which the
license plates have been impounded. The registrar shall record the data in the
notice as part of the driver’s permanent record.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle owner who has had the license plates of a motor
vehicle impounded pursuant to division (B)(1) above may apply to the registrar,
or to a deputy registrar, for restricted license plates that shall conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4503.231. The registrar or deputy registrar
forthwith shall notify the court of the application and, upon approval of the
court, shall issue restricted license plates to the applicant. Until the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license of the owner is reinstated, any new
license plates issued to the owner also shall conform to the requirements of
R.C. § 4503.231.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.03  DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT; CURFEW.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, no holder of a temporary
instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A) and that is issued on
or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of 18 years, shall
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used
by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of
midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (c)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of the operation, the holder is
accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian or custodian, and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.05(F), (I))
§ 335.031  DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE; CURFEW.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         B.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   A.   Subject to division (c)(1) below, division (a)(1)A. above does
not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either
of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         B.   Division (a)(1)B. above does not apply to the holder of a
probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (a)(2) above. The Registrar of
Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as the written
documentation described in division (a)(2) above, and employers, school
officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and holders of
probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose to utilize
any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (a)(1)A. or
(a)(1)B. above if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed that
required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. above or the holder was
an emancipated minor.
   (c)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (c)(1) above as a result of a first moving violation may
petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) above.
   (d)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (e)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (d) above, or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated, or for
causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation
of that requirement.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. above has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or commencing a
prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FAMILY MEMBER OF A PROBATIONARY LICENSE HOLDER . Includes any of
the following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      (2)   MOVING VIOLATION.  Any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. “Moving
violation” does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      (3)   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4513.263.
   (i)   Whoever violates divisions (a)(1), (a)(4), (c)(3), or (d) above is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (J))
§ 335.04  CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal or duplicate
thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s statement
required under R.C. §§ 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (b)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
§ 335.05  WRONGFUL ENTRUSTMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply.
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) above has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that the
offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) above
if any of the following applies.
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(1), (a)(3), or (a)(5) above, the offender and the operator of the
motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity or
affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(2) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle
reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any violation
of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission that would or
could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s license,
permit or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(4) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle
occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided in divisions (c) to (h) of this
section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) below, whoever violates
division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender
shall be sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the
offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be
sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26;
notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding of R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be
ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of community
service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of
community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal
contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of divisions (a)(1), (a)
(2) or (a)(3) above, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more violations of divisions (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) above
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates divisions (a)(4) or (a)(5) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class seven suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if the vehicle involved
in the offense is registered in the name of the offender, the court may order
one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C.
below, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the vehicle
involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates,
if issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the immobilization of the vehicle
involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates.
If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         C.   1.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal forfeiture to the state
of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the order shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
            2.   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (c)(3)C. above is assigned or transferred
and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or independent of
any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the offender the value
of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national automobile dealers
association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this division shall be
distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (d)   If a court orders the immobilization of a vehicle under division (c)
(3)A. or (c)(3)B. above, the court shall not release the vehicle from the
immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization ordered
unless the court is presented with current proof of financial responsibility
with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)C. above, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither the registrar
of motor vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any application for the
registration or transfer of registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased
by the person named in the order. The period of denial shall be five years
after the date the order is issued, unless, during that five-year period, the
court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in the order terminates
the forfeiture and notifies the registrar of the termination. If the court
terminates the forfeiture and notifies the registrar, the registrar shall take
all necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or
leased by the person or to transfer the registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance shall not be admissible as evidence in any civil action
that involves the offender or delinquent child who is the subject of the
conviction, plea or adjudication and that arises from the wrongful entrustment
of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.06  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under this chapter when the person does not have the person’s license on or
about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) below, whoever violates
this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the
offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3),
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to
complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the
underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(Ord. 11-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 335.07  DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter
4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this state during the
period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving privileges
and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the limited
driving privileges.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this state in violation of any restriction of the person’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10(D) or
under R.C. § 4507.14.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) above may be admitted into evidence as prima
facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (a) above or the person operated a motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction at the time of the alleged violation of
division (b) above. The person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b)
above may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the offender a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (d)(2)B. or (d)(2)C. below, the
court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the offender and if
the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within three years of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to or
independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the offender, may order
the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense for 30 days and the
impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in accordance with
R.C. § 4503.233.
         B.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
         C.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.111 or
4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the
criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the state.
   (e)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable. The
court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (f)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the registrar of motor vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
   (g)   (1)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01.
      (2)   If the offender fails to provide that proof of financial
responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by law, the
court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not
exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision
that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the
vehicle before, during or after committing the offense for which the offender
is sentenced under this section.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.071  DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of
a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads
or highways within this state during the period of the suspension.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) below,
driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (c) below, the court instead
imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house arrest with
electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic monitoring
imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the court imposes a
mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court may impose a jail
term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall the cumulative
jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         B.   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) below; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (c) below, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) below;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVl suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding the
jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not
sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in
lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) below; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234, if title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and of R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may
fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
national automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (c)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) above unless, within
60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on the
record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender
is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be able to
begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (d)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (b)(1),
(b)(2) or (b)(3) above shall be deposited into the county indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund or municipal indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund
under the control of that court, as created by the county or municipal
corporation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (e)   (1)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by
law or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a
mayor’s court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02 (A)(7).
      (2)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in division (B) of that
section.
      (3)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. §§ 3123.58 or 4508.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (f)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after committing the
offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this section for which
the offender is sentenced.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC MONITORING . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (2)   EQUIVALENT OFFENSE.  Includes any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state or law
of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (a) above; or
         B.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (a) above.
      (3)   JAIL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (4)   MANDATORY JAIL TERM.  The mandatory term in jail of three, ten or
30 consecutive days that must be imposed under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)
(3) above upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (a) of this
section and in relation to which all of the following apply.
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision of
the Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)  (Ord. 13-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.072  DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION.
   (a)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this state, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be
operated by another person in the state, during the period of the suspension or
cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter 4509. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle within this state, or knowingly permit any motor
vehicle owned by the person to be operated by another person in the state,
during the period in which the person is required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and
maintain proof of financial responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101,
unless proof of financial responsibility is maintained with respect to that
vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this state if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has been
suspended pursuant to R.C. §§ 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a judgment.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) above may be admitted into evidence as prima
facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a financial
responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division
(a) above or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time of the alleged
violation of division (b) above. The person charged with a violation of
division (a) or (b) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie
evidence.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of driving under
financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be punished
as provided in divisions (d) to (i) of this section. Whoever violates division
(b) of this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment
suspension and shall be punished as provided in divisions (d) to (i) of this
section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2) below, the offense
is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to
2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the
offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be
fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may
be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of
community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a
term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect
criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying
case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.11 or
4510.111, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
   (f)   The court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range of time specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (g)   (1)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (a) or (b) of this section or
R.C. §§ 4510.11 or 4510.111 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the court, in addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes
upon the offender, may order the immobilization for 30 days of the vehicle
involved in the offense and the impoundment for 30 days of the license plates
of that vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within
three years of the offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two violations of division (a) or (b) of this section or R.C. §§
4510.11 or 4510.111, or any combination of two violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4510.11 or 4510.111, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance,
the court, in addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes
on the offender, may order the immobilization for 60 days of the vehicle
involved in the offense and the impoundment for 60 days of the license plates
of that vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within
three years of the offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to three or more violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.11 or
4510.111, or any combination of three or more violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4510.11 or 4510.111, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance,
the court, in addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes
upon the offender, may order the criminal forfeiture to the state of the
vehicle involved in the offense. If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to
an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned or transferred
and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or independent of
any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the offender the value
of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national automobile dealers
association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed shall be distributed in
accordance with division (c)(2) of that section.
   (h)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as
applicable. The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered
under this section unless the court is presented with current proof of
financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (i)   An order for criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of a copy of the order from
the court, neither the registrar of motor vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take the necessary
measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the
person or to transfer registration of the vehicle.
(Ord. 07-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.073  DRIVING WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH LICENSE REINSTATEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles or another provision of the Revised Code.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) above may be admitted into evidence as prima facie
evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by the person
at the time of the alleged violation of division (a) above. The person charged
with a violation of division (a) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima
facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license and shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) below, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense
is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to
a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential
sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a),
the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.27(A)
(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (c) of that section to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be
filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (a) above, the
offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more
violations of division (a) above or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(Ord. 14-12, passed 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
335.99
§ 335.08  OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), being 49
U.S.C. § 32703;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 335.09  DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the front and rear of the motor vehicle a
license plate that bears the distinctive number and registration mark assigned
to the motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any
county identification sticker and any validation sticker issued under R.C. §§
4503.19 and 4503.191, except as follows:
         A.   A manufacturer of motor vehicles or dealer therein, the holder of
an in transit permit, and the owner or operator of a motorcycle, motorized
bicycle or moped, motor-driven cycle or motor scooter, autocycle, cab-enclosed
motorcycle, manufactured home, mobile home, trailer, or semi- trailer shall
display a license plate on the rear only.
         B.   A motor vehicle that is issued two license plates shall display
the validation sticker only on the rear license plate, except that a commercial
tractor that does not receive an apportioned license plate under the
international registration plan shall display the validation sticker on the
front of the commercial tractor.
         C.   An apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned license plate
under the international registration plan shall display the license plate only
on the front of a commercial tractor and on the rear of all other vehicles.
      (2)   All license plates shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs their visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary license
placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or
on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail to display the
windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of the motor vehicle. No
temporary license placard or windshield sticker shall be covered by any
material that obstructs its visibility.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer shall only issue a ticket, citation, or
summons, or cause the arrest or commence a prosecution, for the failure to
display a license plate in plain view on the front of a parked motor vehicle if
the officer first determines that another offense has occurred and either
places the operator or vehicle owner under arrest or issues a ticket, citation,
or summons to the operator or vehicle owner for the other offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A), (B))
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (c)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (c)(1) above, RESIDENT means any person to
whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (d)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (e)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (f)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (g)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (g)(1)B., whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a) above by failing to display a
license plate in plain view on the front of a motor vehicle as required under
division (a) above while the motor vehicle is otherwise legally parked is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $100. A person who
is subject to the penalty prescribed in this division (g)(1)B. is not subject
to the charging of points under R.C. § 4510.036.
         C.   The offense established under division (a) of this section is a
strict liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
this offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that
any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is
not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (i)(3)A. above is a strict
liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for purposes
of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) above is guilty of operation of a
motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to
another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f) above is guilty of illegal operation
by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the distinctive number
or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 335.10  EXPIRED OR UNLAWFUL LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle which is parked or
operated upon the public streets or highways shall fail to annually file the
application for registration or to pay the tax therefor, as required by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4503.
(R.C. § 4503.11)
   (b)   No person shall operate, drive or park upon the public streets or
highways a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered the
motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11)
   (c)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of Ohio
shall operate, drive or park the motor vehicle upon the public streets or
highways, while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark issued
by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the laws of
Ohio relating to the registration and identification of motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12)
   (d)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which is displayed an expired license plate or an expired
validation sticker.
   (e)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally registered and
issued for such vehicle, or upon which are displayed any license plates that
were issued on an application for registration that contains any false
statement by the applicant.
(R.C. §§ 4549.11; 4549.12)
§ 335.11  USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES; TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (b)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or identification
mark, this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first
offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 335.12  STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON STREETS; COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED
VEHICLE.
   (a)   (1)   In case of accident to or collision with persons or property
upon any of the public roads or highways, due to the driving or operation
thereon of any motor vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the driver’s or operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or
collision and shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
driver or operator has given the driver’s or operator’s name and address and,
if the driver or operator is not the owner, the name and address of the owner
of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, to any person injured in the accident or collision or to the operator,
occupant, owner or attendant of any motor vehicle damaged in the accident or
collision, or to any police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event the injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given by this section, the other driver involved
in the accident or collision forthwith shall notify the nearest police
authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
driver’s name, address and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
driver was operating, and then remain at the scene of the accident or collision
until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by an emergency
vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of failure to stop
after an accident, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the accident or
collision results in serious physical harm to a person, failure to stop after
an accident is a felony of the fifth degree. If the accident or collision
results in the death of a person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony
of the third degree. The court, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege required by this
division.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §§
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(Ord. 15-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 335.13  STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON PROPERTY OTHER THAN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   In case of accident or collision resulting in injury or damage
to persons or property upon any public or private property other than public
roads or highways, due to the driving or operation thereon of any motor
vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor vehicle, having knowledge of
the accident or collision, shall stop, and, upon request of the person injured
or damaged, or any other person, shall give that person the driver’s or
operator’s name and address, and, if the driver or operator is not the owner,
the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together with the
registered number of that motor vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the
driver’s or operator’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the damaged property is not
furnished such information, the driver of the motor vehicle involved in the
accident or collision, within 24 hours after the accident or collision, shall
forward to the police department of the city or village in which the accident
or collision occurred or if it occurred outside the corporate limits of a city
or village to the sheriff of the county in which the accident or collision
occurred the same information required to be given to the owner or person in
control of the damaged property and give the date, time and location of the
accident or collision.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of failure to stop
after a nonpublic road accident, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a person, failure to
stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony of the fifth degree, if the
accident or collision results in the death of a person, failure to stop after a
nonpublic road accident is a felony of the third degree.
      (2)   The court, in addition to any other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege required by this
division.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 335.14  VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of the vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and
if available, shall exhibit the driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after the accident, shall
forward to the police department of the city or village in which the accident
or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate limits of a city
or village to the sheriff of the county in which the accident or collision
occurred, the same information required to be given to the owner or person in
control of the property and give the location of the accident and a description
of the damage insofar as it is known.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of failure to stop
after an accident involving the property of others, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing
the offense charged under this section.
(Ord. 17-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 335.15  LOAN OR SALE OF LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall loan, sell, give away or otherwise traffic in any number or
license plate or plates issued by any state or other duly authorized
governmental agency in connection with the registration of a motor vehicle,
except as provided by laws governing the issuing of license plates.
§ 335.16  FAILURE OF SELLER TO USE PROPER LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall show, exhibit, display or have in possession for the purpose
of selling, any motor vehicle bearing or displaying thereon any number or
license plates, except those of the dealer so displaying such motor vehicle,
provided, however, that when the motor vehicle is placed on consignment with a
dealer by its owner, there may be displayed the number or license plate issued
to such owner.
§ 335.17  REPORTING REPOSSESSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person engaged in the business of making loans, purchasing notes, secured
by mortgages, conditional sales agreements, or any other liens upon a motor
vehicle, or engaged in any business involving the repossession of motor
vehicles, shall fail to notify the Police Department of any repossession of a
motor vehicle, or give such additional information as may be required, within
one hour after possession of any motor vehicle, when the same is taken without
the owner’s consent or knowledge.
§ 335.18  REPORTING UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person engaged in the business of operating a garage, parking space or
lot, or renting space for the parking or storing of four or more vehicles, or
engaged in the business of repairing motor vehicles, parts and accessories,
shall fail to report to the Police Department any motor vehicle which has
remained unclaimed in his or her possession for a period of more than fifteen
days, except when the same has been parked or placed in storage by order of the
Department. Nothing in this section shall apply where arrangements have been
made for continuous storage or parking, and where the owner of the motor
vehicle so parked or stored is personally known to the owner or operator of the
garage, parking lot or space, so that the name and address of such owner can be
furnished upon the request of any member of the Department.
§ 335.19  REPORTING UNUSED LICENSE PLATES.
   No person, having received in his or her business or otherwise having in his
or her possession, any number or license plates for motor vehicles, not
displayed upon the motor vehicle for which issued, and not called for by the
owner to whom issued, within five days, shall fail to, immediately after such
five-day period, notify the Police Department of such fact and to surrender
such number or license plates to any police officer demanding the same.
§ 335.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 337:  SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
337.01   Driving unsafe vehicles
337.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights
337.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
337.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
337.05   Rear red reflectors
337.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles
337.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination
337.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads
337.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
337.10   Lights on slow-moving vehicles; emblem required
337.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
337.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
337.13   Display of lighted lights
337.14   Use of headlight beams
337.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles
337.16   Number of lights; limitations on flashing, oscillating or rotating
337.17   Focus and aim of headlights
337.18   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes
337.19   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
337.20   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
337.21   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear
337.22   Windshield and windshield wiper; sign or poster thereon
337.23   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle
337.24   Motor vehicle stop lights
337.25   Air cleaner required
337.26   Child restraint system usage
337.27   Drivers and passengers required to wear seat belts
337.28   Use of sunscreening, nontransparent and reflectorized materials
337.29   Bumper heights
337.30   Television sets
337.31   Playing of sound devices in vehicles restricted
 
337.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see §§
373.05 et seq.
   Motorized bicycle lights and equipment, see Ohio R.C. 4511.521
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Slow moving vehicle emblem, see OAC Ch. 4501-13
   Towing requirements, see §
339.07
   Use of studded tires and chains, see §
339.11
   Use of stop and turn signals, see §
331.14
   Vehicle lighting, see OAC 4501-15
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see §
339.06
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways, see Ohio
R.C. 4513.28
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles, see §
339.05
§ 337.01  DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any street any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
do not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
agricultural tractors except as made applicable to such articles of machinery.
(R.C. § 4513.02)
   (d)   No person shall drive or move on any street or public property any
motor vehicle which has been damaged to such an extent that the damaged parts
endanger any person or project beyond the normal lines of such vehicle.
(Ord. 6942, passed 12-21-1976)  Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.02  LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a
street or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and
illuminating devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of
the following times:
         A.   The time from sunset to sunrise;
         B.   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
         C.   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
      (2)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during such times any time specified in this
section, shall be operated upon a street or highway within this state using
only parking lights as illumination.
      (3)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the
distance from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or
within which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be
measured upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric
conditions unless a different condition is expressly stated.
      (4)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the
mounted height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such
light or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (a)(1)C. above has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)  (Ord. 18-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 337.03  HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 337.04  TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semi- trailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
the registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of 50
feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating the registration plate.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 337.05  REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (a)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semi- trailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the
tail lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of a size and characteristics and so
maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to 50
feet from the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 337.06  SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semi-trailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by the regulations, and the equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   This equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 337.07  OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 337.08  RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 337.09  LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon the highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.10  LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; EMBLEM REQUIRED.
   (a)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when the
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 mph or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 mph, and shall
display a triangular slow-moving vehicle (SMV) emblem. The emblem shall be
mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall correlate with
and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph provided it is operated in
accordance with this section. As used in this division, MACHINERY does not
include any vehicle designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (c)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (b) above operating or
traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving vehicles
being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of vehicle
or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (d)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(b) above, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a primary
power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1, 1966,
unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow- moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (b) above.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the unit displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem
as specified in division (b) above and a speed identification symbol that meets
the specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS).
   (e)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (b) above, in addition to the use of the slow-moving
vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph, in addition to the
display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with a red flashing
light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the
rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber
light to the front and red light to the rear. In addition to the lights
described in this division, farm machinery and motor vehicles escorting farm
machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, as
permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
and also may display simultaneously flashing turn signals or warning lights, as
permitted by that section.
   (f)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         A.   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (b)
above;
         B.   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (f)(2) below;
         C.   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (f)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (g)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph shall display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph and is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the speed
identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural tractor.
   (h)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph, the operator shall possess some documentation
published or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles
per hour at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to
operate.
   (i)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (j)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi- wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   A.   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         B.   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         C.   The lamps and reflectors required by division (j)(1)A. above and
their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained in rules
adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119.
The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors and red reflectors and
their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible, conform with
paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1 and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the American Society
of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98, Lighting and
Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (j)(1) above are in
addition to the slow- moving vehicle emblem and lights required or permitted by
R.C. §§ 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or traveling on a street or
highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (j)(1) or (j)(2) above.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 337.11  SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 337.12  COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 337.13  DISPLAY OF LIGHTED LIGHTS.
   (a)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when the vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 337.14  USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 337.15  LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided
that the vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 337.16  NUMBER OF LIGHTS; LIMITATIONS ON FLASHING, OSCILLATING OR ROTATING.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (b)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating those lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light,
but shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other
color, nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(c)(1) above does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm machinery may
also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (e)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
§ 337.17  FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 337.18  MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on those motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semi-trailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semi-trailers
equipped with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes
in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used
alternatively, may be employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semi-trailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         A.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
         B.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.19  HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. The equipment shall not be used except when the
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case the driver
of the emergency vehicle shall sound the equipment when it is necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 337.20  MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of the vehicle, or equipped in any way
to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of the
vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 337.21  REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of the
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 337.22  WINDSHIELD AND WINDSHIELD WIPER; SIGN OR POSTER THEREON.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of the vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) above does not apply to a person who is driving a
passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna, electronic
tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device, or other
similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the device meets
both of the following:
         A.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         B.   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) above does not apply to a person who is driving a
commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna, electronic
tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device, or other
similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the device meets
both of the following:
         A.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         B.   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (c)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 337.23  LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 337.24  MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semi- trailer and pole trailer
when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights,
except that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. These stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   These stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light
to the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 337.25  AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner, except for
motor vehicles equipped with electronic fuel-injection engines.
§ 337.26  CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM USAGE.
   (a)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (b)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is registered
in this state and is owned, leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery
school, or day-care center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the
child properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a
child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (c)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (a) or (b) above to
be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a motor vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. §
5104.011, that is required by the United States Department of Transportation to
be equipped with seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the
operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets
federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (d)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (a), (b) or (c)
above to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is being
transported in a motor vehicle other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle is
defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States Department of
Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of the manufacture of
assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly
restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards or in an
occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) above has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (c) or (d) above or causing the arrest of
or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division (c) or (d)
above, and absent another violation of law, a law enforcement officer’s view of
the interior or visual inspection of a motor vehicle being operated on any
street or highway may not be used for the purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (c) or (d) above has been or is being committed.
   (f)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (g)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or an occupant restraining device as
required by this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (h)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (i)   There is hereby created in the state treasury the Child Highway Safety
Fund, consisting of fines imposed pursuant to division (l) below for violations
of divisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) above. The money in the Fund shall be used
by the Department of Health only to defray the cost of designating hospitals as
pediatric trauma centers under R.C. § 3727.081 and to establish and administer
a child highway safety program. The purpose of this program shall be to educate
the public about child restraint systems and booster seats and the importance
of their proper use. The program also shall include a process for providing
child restraint systems and booster seats to persons who meet the eligibility
criteria established by the Department, and a toll-free telephone number the
public may utilize to obtain information about child restraint systems and
booster seats, and their proper use.
   (j)   The Director of Health, in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt any rules necessary to carry out this section, including rules
establishing the criteria a person must meet in order to receive a child
restraint system or booster seat under the Department’s child highway safety
program; provided that rules relating to the verification of pediatric trauma
centers shall not be adopted under this section.
   (k)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which the section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (l)   Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c) or (d) above shall be punished
as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to
secure more than one child in a child restraint system, booster seat or
occupant restraining device as required by this section that occurred at the
same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed to be a single
violation of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (l)(2) below, the offender
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $75.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of division (a), (b), (c) or (d) above or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially similar to any of those divisions, the offender
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.81)  (Ord. 101-09, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 337.27  DRIVERS AND PASSENGERS REQUIRED TO WEAR SEAT BELTS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, being Public Law 89-563, 80 Stat. 730, formerly 15
U.S.C. §§ 1381 et seq.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR and COMMERCIAL CAR.  Have the
same meanings as provided in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
      (3)   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE.  A seat safety belt, shoulder belt,
harness or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of
or passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      (4)   PASSENGER.  Any person in an automobile, other than its operator,
who is occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      (5)   TORT ACTION.  A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss
to person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2307.71, and an asbestos claim, as defined in Ohio R.C.
2307.91, but does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract
or another agreement between persons.
      (6)   VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE.  Have the same meanings as provided in
Chapter 301.
   (b)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless that person
is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless that person is wearing
all of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (b)(3) below is wearing all of the available elements of a properly
adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless that person is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device; or
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (c)   Division (b)(3) above does not apply to a person who is required by §
337.26 to be secured in a child restraint device. Division (b)(1) above does
not apply to a person who is an employee of the United States Postal Service or
of a newspaper home delivery service, during any period in which the person is
engaged in the operation of an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to
addressees. Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) above do not apply to a person who has
an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this state under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this state
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the person has a physical
impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining device impossible or
impractical.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) above shall be fined $30.
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (b)(2), (b)(3) and (b)(4) above shall be
fined $20.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
   (d)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (b) above has been or is being
committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for
a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution
of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement officer
shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being operated on
any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a violation
of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (e)   All fines collected for violations of division (b) above shall be
forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit as provided in Ohio R.C. 4513.263.
   (f)   (1)   Subject to division (f)(2) below, the failure of a person to
wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device in violation of divisions (b)(1) or (b)(3) above or the failure of a
person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an automobile being
operated by that person is wearing all of the available elements of a properly
adjusted occupant restraining device, in violation of division (b)(2) above,
shall not be considered or used by the trier of fact in a tort action as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence. But the trier of fact may
determine based on evidence admitted consistent with the state’s rules of
evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in the tort action
and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that represents noneconomic
loss, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2307.011 in a tort action that could have been
recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of the available elements
of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device. Evidence of that failure
shall not be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the person other
than a prosecution for a violation of this section; and shall not be admissible
as evidence in a criminal action involving the person other than a prosecution
for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the rules
of evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         A.   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         B.   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car; and
         C.   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
(R.C. § 4513.263)  (Ord. 100-09, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 337.28  USE OF SUNSCREENING, NONTRANSPARENT AND REFLECTORIZED MATERIALS.
   (a)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
   (b)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any
rule adopted under that section.
   (c)   (1)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
      (2)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in R.C.
§ 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C. Chapter
4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to the
requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
   (d)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
   (e)   This section does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or glazing
of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or
permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205, being 49 C.F.R. §
571.205.
   (f)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (b) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, “child with disabilities” has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
   (g)   This section does not apply to any school bus that is to be sold and
operated outside the municipality.
   (h)   (1)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a law
enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
         A.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
         B.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine unit
for transporting a police dog.
      (2)   As used in this division, “law enforcement agency” means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (i)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (c)(2) or (d) above is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity at
the time of sale.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be convicted unless
the act of installation was authorized by the board of directors, trustees,
partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf of the organization,
and installation was performed by an employee of the organization acting within
the scope of the person’s employment.
         B.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (b) above is liable in a civil action to the owner of
a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or material for
any damages incurred by that person as a result of the installation of the
nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the civil action, and
attorney fees.
         C.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (b) above and the offender is a motor vehicle repair operator
registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed under
R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (b) above is subject to a
registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of not more
than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 337.29  BUMPER HEIGHTS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING.  The manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      (2)   MANUFACTURER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      (4)   PASSENGER CAR.  Any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      (5)   TRUCK.  Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semi-trailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (b)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height has been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (c)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (d)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs.
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (g)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 337.30  TELEVISION SETS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with a television set so placed
as to distract the attention of the driver.
§ 337.31  PLAYING OF SOUND DEVICES IN VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No person shall play any radio, music player or an audio system in a
motor vehicle at such volume as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
other persons or at a volume which is plainly audible to persons other than the
occupants of such vehicle.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty as set forth in §
303.99, the following additional penalty applies for:
      (1)   First offense: a mandatory fine of $200;
      (2)   Second offense: a mandatory fine of $400; and
      (3)   Third offense and thereafter: a mandatory fine of $600.
   (c)   Upon conviction for a violation of this section, the sound device used
during the commission of the offense shall be subject to seizure and payment of
a judgment.
(Ord. 53-91, passed 6-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.99  PENALTY.
   Unless as otherwise noted, with the exceptions of §§
337.26,
337.27 and
337.31, vehicle equipment offenses are reclassified as minor misdemeanors,
regardless of prior similar offenses.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 12-1-2009)
CHAPTER 339:  COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
339.01   Oversize or overweight vehicle operation on state routes; state permit
339.02   Truck routes; use of local streets
339.03   Maximum width, height and length
339.04   Route and load information
339.05   Wheel protectors
339.06   Vehicles transporting explosives
339.07   Towing requirements
339.08   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud
339.09   Shifting load; loose loads
339.10   Vehicles with spikes, lugs and chains
339.11   Use of studded tires and chains
339.12   Heavy vehicles proceeding down Noble Road hill
339.13   Operation of commercial units upon through streets
339.14   Weighing vehicles and loads
 
339.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Arrest notice of driver, see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Slower moving vehicles to be driven in right-hand lane, see §
331.01(b)
   Weighing vehicle; removal of excess load, see Ohio R.C. 4513.33
§ 339.01  OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLE OPERATION ON STATE ROUTES; STATE
PERMIT.
   (a)   State regulations.
      (1)   A.   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   For regional trips at distances of 150 miles or less from a
facility stated on the application as the applicant’s point of origin.
            4.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         B.   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (a)(1)A. above, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
      (3)   A.   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         B.   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         C.   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (a)(1)A. above upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (a)(1)B. above. If a permit is to be issued, the
municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the vehicle and
may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned upon the
sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the roadway or
a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a condition of
issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to develop and
enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate for or to
repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   A.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         B.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         C.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (b)   Violations. Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   Local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as
specified R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37, or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon
any street in the municipality other than state routes and county roads, except
those local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by
appropriate traffic signs, and except when the operation is necessary to load
or unload property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of the vehicle
or to perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through
the municipality. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route
or a designated truck route within the municipality shall confine the deviation
to that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure. On county
roads, Council or other duly designated local authority shall establish
reasonable weight limits commensurate with the construction and material
specifications for the roads and the load resistance of the roads as determined
by the County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs indicating the
weight limits.
   (d)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Police Chief may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move an
oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local streets
and highways.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction. However, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in division (a) above.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for the vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $25, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by the Police Department in
supervising the movement of the vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$50.
      (4)   Except as provided in divisions (a) and (b) above, streets and
highways shall be posted with signs indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to inform drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of the permit and denial of request for any future permit. This
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalties prescribed by §
303.99.
§ 339.02  TRUCK ROUTES; USE OF LOCAL STREETS.
   (a)   The following streets are designated as thoroughfares upon which
trucks and other commercial cars not exceeding the gross weight limits
established under §
339.01 shall be permitted to travel: Superior Avenue; Superior Road; Hayden
Avenue; Euclid Avenue; Eddy Road; East 152nd Street; Doan Avenue; Collamer
Street; Noble Road from East 152nd Street to the southerly city limits;
Lakeview Avenue; Ivanhoe Road; Coit Avenue; Hillsboro Road from Euclid Avenue
to Belvoir Boulevard; and Belvoir Boulevard from Hillsboro Road to the
northerly city limits.
   (b)   The following streets are designated as thoroughfares upon which
trucks and other commercial cars of 24,000 pounds gross weight or less shall be
permitted to travel: Lee Boulevard from Euclid Avenue to the southerly city
limits; and Taylor Road from Euclid Avenue to the easterly city limits.
   (c)   All other streets within the city shall be prohibited to trucks or any
combination of commercial tractors with a trailer or semi-trailer, except that
such commercial cars may use a restricted street when necessary for the purpose
of receiving or delivering goods in the immediate neighborhood of such
restricted street, in which instance the commercial car shall enter and leave
such restricted street by the nearest designated thoroughfare.
§ 339.03  MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads
or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by
order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on the
state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (c)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semi-trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor semi- trailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor semi-
trailer combination on the state highways or portions of state highways as the
Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semi- trailer or trailer when
operated in a commercial tractor semi-trailer-trailer or commercial tractor
semi-trailer- semi-trailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit
the operation of any such commercial tractor semi-trailer-trailer or commercial
tractor semi-trailer- semi-trailer combination on the state highways or
portions of state highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   A.   In excess of 97 feet for drive- away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         B.   In excess of 75 feet for drive- away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (c)(3) and (c)
(4), and in division (e) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semi-trailers, with or without load.
   (d)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (e)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of the vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (f)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (b) above shall not include
side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and
egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (b)(5) above shall not include
automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown assemblies,
provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches from either
side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of the bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semi-trailer
of a commercial tractor semi-trailer-semi-trailer combination, energy
conservation devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of
the United States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo- carrying
refrigerator equipment attached to the front of trailers and semi-trailers. In
special cases, vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section
may operate in accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by that department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of the vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (h)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (i)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 339.04  ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter are required, upon request by
a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route they are
following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or
removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods being
removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue the route.
§ 339.05  WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semi-trailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless the vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt,
water or other materials on the windshields of following vehicles. The
protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of
the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the flaps
under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at least as
wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and
constructed that the requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body
construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are
required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other parts
of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending at
least to the centerline of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 339.06  VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high,
or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United
States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 339.07  TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon the connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.    
      (3)   In addition to the drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semi-trailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semi-trailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less, and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time except as follows:
         A.   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         B.   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal
or a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a
public highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site
where the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577 or to the nearest qualified repair facility.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or the civil liability
established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person towing or removing a vehicle in the
manner described in division (c)(1) above.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 339.08  LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; REMOVAL REQUIRED; TRACKING MUD.
   (a)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track mud on any public
way or place.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud or permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or
deposited upon any public way or place to immediately remove the same or cause
it to be removed.
§ 339.09  SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (a)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless the vehicle is
so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
   (b)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by R.C. § 4513.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 339.10  VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS AND CHAINS.
   (a)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. “Traction engine” or “tractor”, as used in this section, applies
to all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (b)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (a), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE  means any tire
designed for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-
resisting material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) below, no person shall
operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school bus that
is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this municipality,
except during the period extending from the first day of November of each year
through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (d)(1) above.
   (e)   Division (d) above does not apply to the use of tire chains when there
is snow or ice on the streets or highways where the chains are being used, or
the immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 339.11  USE OF STUDDED TIRES AND CHAINS.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed for
use on a vehicle, and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET OR HIGHWAY, PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE and SCHOOL BUS have the
same meanings as given those terms in Chapter 301.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) below, no person shall
operate any motor vehicle, other than a public safety vehicle or bus, that is
equipped with studded tires on any street or highway, except during the period
extending from November 1 of each year through April 15 of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (b)(1) above.
   (c)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
§ 339.12  HEAVY VEHICLES PROCEEDING DOWN NOBLE ROAD HILL.
   All busses and commercial cars carrying and/or pulling a gross weight of
10,000 pounds or more shall, upon approaching the top of Noble Road hill from a
southerly direction, stop before proceeding down the hill. If equipped with
standard transmission, such vehicles shall be put and kept in second gear with
the clutch engaged, and if equipped with automatic transmission, shall be
operated in low gear or low drive, until Euclid Avenue is reached.
§ 339.13  OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL UNITS UPON THROUGH STREETS.
   (a)   All commercial tractors, trailers, semi- trailers and pole trailers
and trucks in excess of 7,000 pounds gross weight shall be operated in the lane
nearest the right-hand edge of the roadway upon all through streets when
parking is prohibited in such traffic lane; otherwise, in the lane of traffic
immediately left thereof. No such vehicles shall overtake and pass any other
moving vehicle traveling in the same direction in the right-hand lane of any
through street unless otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply when such vehicles are
making an approach for a left turn or when the lane nearest the right-hand edge
of the roadway or the lane immediately left thereof upon any through street is
not available for travel, or when the lane nearest the right-hand edge of the
roadway is reserved for vehicles making or tending to make a right turn at the
next nearest intersection and when traffic-control devices have been placed or
erected to so indicate the restricted use of such traffic lane.
§ 339.14  WEIGHING VEHICLES AND LOADS.
   (a)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of such vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
streets and highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel
loads of highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed
location, having load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the
combined load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a
highway vehicle or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded
or unloaded. The driver of such vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to
proceed to the nearest available of such sealed scales to accomplish the
weighing, provided such scales are within three miles of the point where such
vehicle is stopped. Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be
held by the police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the
weighing as prescribed by this section. All scales used in determining the
lawful weight of a vehicle and its load shall be annually compared by a
municipal, county, or state sealer with the state standards or standards
approved by the state and such scales shall not be sealed if they do not
conform to the state standards or standards approved by the state.
   (b)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be straight
approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and width to
insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations. During
determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable scales, they shall
be used on level terrain of sufficient length and width to accommodate the
entire vehicle being weighed.
   (c)   Whenever such officer upon weighing a vehicle and load determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of such vehicle to the limit permitted
under this Traffic Code.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
§ 339.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 341:  COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
341.01   Definitions
341.02   Exemptions
341.03   Prerequisites to operation of a commercial motor vehicle
341.04   Prohibitions
341.05   Criminal offenses
341.06   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Arrest notice of driver, see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   Disqualification, see Ohio R.C. 4506.16
   Load limits, see
Ch. 339
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Suspension or revocation of license, see Ohio R.C. 4507.16
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways, see Ohio R.C. 4513.28
§ 341.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.  The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following:
      (1)   One hundred milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood
plasma;
      (2)   Two hundred ten liters of breath;
      (3)   One hundred milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE . A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM.  The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C.A. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.  Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a class A
or class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION.  An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations; and
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. Part 391.
   DOMICILED.  Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to
which an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle; or
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE.  To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER.  Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE.  A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE.  Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C.
§ 4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE.  Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  A village, township or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER.  Any person, including the federal government, any state and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT.  An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license
that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK.  A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding
or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the truck is
operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the operations
of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.   
   FELONY.  Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION.  Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING.  The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Part
172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD.  The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a substantial
endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur before the
reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun to lessen
the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE.  One of the following received by a driver from the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued
a medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. Part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE.  A mobile communication device that falls under or uses
any commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. Part 20, except
that mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semi-trailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that the term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semi-trailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.  A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK.  A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be
loaded on or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids,
mountings or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical
means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE.  Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (2)B. of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving; and
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         B.   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         A.   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 mph or more;
         B.   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         C.   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         D.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         E.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         F.   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         G.   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
and
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE.  A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE.  Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport
any liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either
permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an
individual rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated
capacity of 1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor
vehicle transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER . A person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement entered
into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING . Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. TEXTING includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
TEXTING does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING.  Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic-control device, or other momentary delays. TEXTING WHILE
DRIVING  does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES.  The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE.  A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE.  Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 341.02  EXEMPTIONS.
   Section
341.02 has been deleted from the codified ordinances. Former Ohio R.C. 4506.02
from which §
341.02 was derived was repealed by Am. Sub. H.B. No. 68, effective June 29,
2005. The exemptions are now contained in §
341.03.
§ 341.03  PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF A COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, the following shall
apply.
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession,
a valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor
vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, a valid
examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under Ohio R.C. 4506.13, a valid
restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for farm-related service
industries issued under Ohio R.C. 4506.24, or a valid commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit issued by the Registrar and is accompanied
by an authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has
been issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid
commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor vehicle
being driven.
      (2)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (b)   Nothing in division (a) above applies to any qualified person when
engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle
for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible
unit of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio national guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserved technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapters 4921 or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise; and
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle.
   (c)   Nothing contained in division (b)(5) above shall be construed as
preempting or superseding any law, rule, or regulation of this state concerning
the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.03)
§ 341.04  PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
and
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (b)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state’s Department of Public
Safety after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for
sanctioning purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred
in this state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (c)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) above is guilty of falsification,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions of R.C. §
4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         B.   The offenses established under division (c) above are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability, whether in
this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 341.05  CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance pertaining
to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.15)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 341.06  EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction; or
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (c)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (d)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a), (b) or (d) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
TITLE 7:  PARKING
   Chapter
      
350   Parking Infractions
      
351   Parking Generally
      
353   Parking Meters on Streets
      
355   Off-Street Parking Meters
CHAPTER 350:  PARKING INFRACTIONS
Section
350.01   Definitions
350.02   Civil liability for parking infractions; arrest prohibited
350.03   Parking Violations Bureau
350.04   Parking ticket, service, and liability
350.05   Answers, procedures
350.06   Notification of infraction upon failure to answer
350.07   Hearing procedure; defenses; judgments
350.08   Nonliability of owner
350.09   Issuance of certificate of registration prohibited when unpaid
multiple judgments
350.10   Enforcement
350.11   Parking ticket adopted
350.12   Parking infraction fines
350.13   Impoundment and immobilization
350.14   Release of impounded or immobilized vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Authority to establish civil violations, see Ohio R.C. 4521.02
§ 350.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter of the Traffic
Code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Includes, but shall not be limited to, any person
whose duties include the issuance and service of parking tickets within the
city, except where otherwise specifically defined herein.
   NOTIFICATION OF INFRACTION.  The notice mailed to the owner or operator of a
vehicle involved in a parking infraction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4521.07 and §
350.06 hereof.
   PARKING INFRACTION.  A violation of any ordinance, resolution or regulation
enacted or promulgated by the city that regulates the standing or parking of
vehicles, to include but not limited to, the following sections of the Traffic
Code.
351.02 Prohibiting parking or standing places.
351.03 Minimum roadway clearance required.
351.04 Parking near curb; handicapped locations on public and private lots and
garages.
351.05 Unattended vehicle: duty to stop engine, remove key, set brake and turn
wheels.
351.06 Opening vehicle door on traffic side.
351.07 Truck zones.
351.08 Bus passenger areas.
351.09 Parking in bus or taxicab stands.
351.10 Time restriction on bus or commercial car parking.
351.11 Truck and recreational vehicle parking in residential areas.
351.12 Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway.
351.14 General time restriction on parking.
351.15 Parking so as to interfere with street cleaning.
351.16 Parking prohibited during snow emergency.
351.17 Parking on private or public property other than streets.
 
   PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU. The bureau established by Council and the
Municipal Court pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4521.04.
   RUSH HOUR PARKING INFRACTION.  A violation of this chapter occurring on the
streets and roadways and during the times designated as rush hour by the
Director of Public Safety, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in §
301.01.
   VIOLATIONS CLERK.  The person appointed pursuant to §
350.03(b).
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.02  CIVIL LIABILITY FOR PARKING INFRACTIONS; ARREST PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The commission of a parking infraction shall not be considered a
criminal offense for any purpose.
   (b)   A person who commits a parking infraction shall not be arrested as a
result of the commission of the violation.
   (c)   Parking infractions shall be handled by the County Juvenile Court or
the Parking Violations Bureau pursuant to the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter
4521 and this chapter.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.03  PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (a)   The city’s Parking Violations Bureau is hereby established pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4521.04. The Parking Violations Bureau shall be within the Department
of Finance for the city. The Parking Violations Bureau has jurisdiction over
each parking infraction that occurs within the territory of the city.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, each parking
infraction that occurs within the jurisdiction of the Parking Violations Bureau
and the enforcement of each such parking infraction shall be handled pursuant
to and be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   The operating costs of the Parking Violations Bureau shall be paid by
the city. The Mayor shall appoint a Violations Clerk and one or more hearing
examiners, and the Director of the city’s Department of Finance shall appoint
or designate necessary clerical employees. No person shall be employed as a
hearing examiner unless the person is an attorney admitted to the practice of
law in this state or formerly was employed as a law enforcement officer. For
the purpose of this subdivision, the term LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER  has the
meaning ascribed to it by Ohio R.C. § 2901.01.
   (c)   The fine, penalties, fees and costs established for a parking
infraction shall be collected, retained and disbursed by the Violations Clerk
if the parking infraction out of which the fine, penalties, fees and costs
arose occurred within the jurisdiction of the Parking Violations Bureau. The
Violations Clerk shall issue tickets for parking infractions to law enforcement
officers for the city, and prescribe conditions for their issuance and
accountability. The fine, penalties, fees and costs collected by the Violations
Clerk for a parking infraction shall be disbursed by the Violations Clerk to
the city.
   (d)   The Mayor shall have authority to contract pursuant to the Charter
with any non-governmental entity to provide services in processing, collecting
and enforcing parking tickets issued by law enforcement officers and civil
judgments and default civil judgments entered pursuant to this chapter. All
contracts entered into by the Violations Clerk shall be subject to approval of
Council and the Mayor. No contract shall affect the responsibilities of hearing
examiners as prescribed in this chapter, or the ultimate responsibility of the
Violations Clerk to collect, retain and disburse fines, penalties, fees and
costs for parking infractions and moneys paid in satisfaction of judgments and
default judgment entered pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.04  PARKING TICKET, SERVICE, AND LIABILITY.
   (a)   The parking ticket adopted in §
350.11 hereof shall be issued by law enforcement officers in all cases in which
a person is charged with committing a parking infraction within the city. The
parking ticket shall be the summons and complaint for purposes of this chapter.
   (b)   A law enforcement officer who issues a parking ticket for a parking
infraction shall complete the ticket by identifying the parking infraction
charged, recording the license plate number, type, and make or model of the
vehicle and indicating the date, time and place of the parking infraction
charged. The law enforcement officer shall sign the ticket and affirm the facts
it contains and file a copy with the Violations Clerk. If the operator of the
vehicle is present, the officer also shall record on the ticket the name of the
operator in a space provided on the ticket for identification of the offender,
and then shall personally serve the parking ticket upon the operator. If the
operator of the vehicle is not present, the law enforcement officer shall
insert the word “owner” in the space provided on the ticket for identification
of the offender, and then shall constructively serve the parking ticket upon
the owner of the vehicle by affixing the ticket to the vehicle in a conspicuous
place.
   (c)   Constructive service of a parking ticket upon an owner of a vehicle by
affixation as provided in division (b) above, or by the procedure described in
division (d) below, has the same force and effect, and potentially subjects
both the owner and the operator of the vehicle whose act or omission resulted
in the parking infraction, if different, to the same fine, penalties, fees and
costs for failure to timely answer or to appear, if a hearing is requested, as
if the parking ticket were personally served on both the owner and operator of
the vehicle at the time of the violation.
   (d)   The original of a parking ticket issued pursuant to this section or
any true copy of it shall be considered a record kept in the ordinary course of
business of the city and of the agency whose law enforcement officer issued it,
and shall be prima facie evidence of the facts it contains.
   (e)   An operator of a vehicle who is not the owner of the vehicle, but who
operates it with the express or implied permission of the owner, is the agent
of the owner for purpose of the receipt of any parking ticket served in
accordance with this section, and personal service of a parking ticket upon the
operator in accordance with this section constitutes constructive service the
owner for purposes of this chapter. The operator of a rented or leased vehicle
whose act or omission resulted in an alleged parking infraction shall not be
considered an agent of the owner if the owner is engaged in the business of
renting or leasing vehicles pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement and
if the owner follows the procedures set forth in §
350.08 hereof.
   (f)   Except as provided in §
350.08 hereof, when a parking ticket is issued for a parking infraction and is
served pursuant to this section, the operator of the vehicle whose act or
omission resulted in the parking infraction for which the ticket was issued and
the owner of the vehicle involved in the parking infraction, if different, are
jointly liable for the parking infraction and any fine, penalty, fees and costs
arising out of the parking infraction.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.05  ANSWERS, PROCEDURES.
   (a)   A person who is personally or constructively served with a parking
ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction shall answer the charge
by appearing personally before the Parking Violations Bureau or by mail.
   (b)   An answer shall be made within ten days from the date of the
infraction, and shall be in one of the following forms:
      (1)   An admission that the person committed the parking infraction, by
payment of any fine arising out of the parking infraction;
      (2)   An admission that the person committed the parking infraction, with
an explanation of the circumstances surrounding the parking infraction; or
      (3)   A denial that the person committed the parking infraction and a
request for a hearing relative to the infraction. If the person desires the
presence, at the hearing of the law enforcement officer who issued the parking
ticket, the person must request his or her presence in his or her answer.
   (c)   (1)   A person who admits that he or she committed a parking
infraction shall pay, when he or she makes his or her answer, within the ten-
day period allowed for an answer, the fine arising out of the infraction
admitted to the Violations Clerk of the Parking Violations Bureau.
      (2)   A person who admits that he or she committed a parking infraction
with explanation may, when he or she makes his or her answer, pay the fine
arising out of the infraction admitted to the Violations Clerk of the Parking
Violations Bureau, and shall submit evidence to the Parking Violations Bureau
that explains the circumstances surrounding the parking infraction. The
evidence may be submitted in person or, to avoid the necessity of personal
appearance, may be sent as affidavits and other documentary evidence by mail.
The Parking Violations Bureau, when it receives an answer admitting the person
committed a parking infraction with explanation, shall promptly determine
whether the explanation mitigates the fact that the person committed the
parking infraction and notify the person, in writing, of its determination.
         A.   If the Parking Violations Bureau determines that the explanation
mitigates the fact that the person committed the parking infraction, the
Parking Violations Bureau shall eliminate or reduce the amount of the fine
arising out of the parking infraction. If the fine is eliminated or reduced and
the person has previously paid the fine, the amount paid in excess of the
revised fine shall be returned to the person; if the fine is eliminated or
reduced and the person has not previously paid the fine, the person shall pay
only the amount of the revised fine.
         B.   If the Parking Violations Bureau determines that the explanation
does not mitigate the fact that the person committed the parking infraction,
the person owes the entire amount of the fine arising out of the parking
infraction, and the person shall pay the entire amount of the fine.
         C.   If a person admits that he or she committed a parking infraction
with explanation and the person fails to pay the amount of the fine due within
ten days after notice of the Parking Violations Bureau’s determination, unless
the amount due has previously been paid, the Parking Violations Bureau’s
determination and the amount of the fine due shall be considered a judgment and
shall be treated as if it were a judgment rendered subsequent to a hearing held
pursuant to §
350.07.
      (3)   A person who denies that he or she committed a parking infraction
shall be granted a hearing concerning the infraction. The Parking Violations
Bureau shall set a date for the hearing and notify the person, in writing, of
the date, time and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a
hearing examiner of the Parking Violations Bureau in accordance with §
350.07 of this chapter.
   (d)   If a person who is personally or constructively served with a parking
ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction fails to timely answer
the charge, as provided in division (b) above, the Parking Violations Bureau
shall issue the proper notifications of infraction pursuant to §
350.06, and proceed according to that section. Failure to timely answer a
charge may result in the imposition of an additional penalty of $10.
   (e)   The issuance of a parking ticket, the filing of or failure to file an
answer by a person personally or constructively served with a ticket, the
substance of an answer, the payment of any fine, penalty, fee and cost, and any
other relevant information shall be entered in the records of the Parking
Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.06  NOTIFICATION OF INFRACTION UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.
   (a)   When a person is personally or constructively served with a parking
ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction in accordance with §
350.04 hereof and the person fails to answer the charge within the time
specified in §
350.05 hereof, the Parking Violations Bureau shall send notifications of
infractions as follows.
      (1)   If the person who fails to answer was the operator of the vehicle
involved in the parking infraction at the time of the commission of the parking
infraction and was personally served with the parking ticket, a notification of
infraction shall be sent to that person, and additionally if such person is not
the owner of the vehicle, as determined from the records of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, a notification of infraction also shall be sent to the owner at his
or her most recent address appearing in such records.
      (2)   If the person who fails to answer was the owner of the vehicle and
was constructively served with the parking ticket, a notification of infraction
shall be sent to the owner at his or her most recent address appearing in the
records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (b)   A notification of infraction shall be sent within 12 months after the
expiration of the time specified in §
350.05 hereof for the making of an answer, shall be sent by first class mail,
and shall contain:
      (1)   An identification of the parking infraction with which the person
was charged and the time and date of the parking infraction, which
identification may be a copy of the parking ticket charging the parking
infraction that was personally or constructively served upon the person;
      (2)   An identification of the amount of the fine, penalties, fees and
costs arising out of the parking infraction that are due;
      (3)   A warning that the person must answer the parking infraction
charged in the ticket within 30 days or a default civil judgment in the amount
of the fine, penalties, fees and costs due may be entered against the person;
      (4)   A description of the allowable answers that may be made and
notification that the person will be afforded a hearing before the Parking
Violations Bureau if he or she denies in his or her answer that he or she
committed the parking infraction;
      (5)   An identification of the manners in which and the entity to which
an answer may be made; and
      (6)   A warning that if the person fails to appear at a requested
hearing, a default civil judgment in the amount of the fine, penalties, fees
and costs due may be entered against the person.
   (c)   A person who receives a notification of infraction pursuant to this
section may answer the parking infraction with which he or she is charged that
is identified in the notification of infraction in any of the manners provided
in §
350.05(b) hereof for answers to parking infractions charged in a parking
ticket. An answer under this section shall be made within 30 days after the
date on which the notification of infraction was mailed, and shall be in one of
the forms specified in §
350.05(b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) for answers to parking infractions charged in a
parking ticket, except that if the answer includes payment of the fine arising
out of the parking infraction, any penalty, fee or costs arising out of such
infraction also shall be paid. The answer shall be governed by the provisions
of §
350.05(c) hereof for answers relative to parking infractions charged in a
parking ticket, except that any determination of the amount to be paid of the
parking infraction with explanation also shall consider any penalty, fee or
cost arising out of such infraction.
   (d)   If a person who is issued a notification of infraction pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4521.07, and division (c) above, fails to timely answer, the failure
to answer shall be considered an admission that the person committed the
parking infraction, and a default civil judgment, in the amount of the fine,
penalties, fee and costs due may be entered against the person. Failure to
answer the parking infraction within 30 days after the date on which the
notification of infraction was mailed shall result in the imposition of an
additional penalty of $15.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.07  HEARING PROCEDURE; DEFENSES; JUDGMENTS.
   (a)   (1)   If a person who is personally or constructively served with a
parking ticket charging the commission of a parking infraction or who receives
a notification of infraction, in his or her answer to the charge, denies that
he or she committed the infraction, the Parking Violations Bureau shall conduct
a hearing to determine if the person committed the parking infraction. Each
hearing shall be conducted in such manner as the hearing examiner considers
appropriate. Rules regarding the admissibility of evidence shall not be
strictly applied in the hearing, but all testimony shall be under oath.
      (2)   At the hearing, the city has the burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the person for whom the hearing is being
conducted committed the parking infraction. If the person, in his or her
answer, denied that he or she committed the parking infraction and requested
the presence at the hearing of the law enforcement officer who issued the
parking ticket, the officer shall be required to attend the hearing unless the
hearing examiner determines that the officer’s presence is not required. If the
officer’s presence at the hearing has been requested and the officer is unable
to attend the hearing on the day and at the time scheduled, the hearing
examiner may grant a reasonable continuance. The person for whom the hearing is
being conducted may present any relevant evidence and testimony at the hearing.
The person does not have to attend the hearing if he or she submits documentary
evidence to the hearing examiner prior to the day of the hearing.
      (3)   The city shall submit the original parking ticket that was
personally or constructively served on the person or a true copy of that
ticket, and information from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that identifies the
owner of the vehicle. The ticket and the information in proper form is prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who
committed the parking infraction. The city may present additional evidence and
testimony at the hearing. The city does not have to be represented at the
hearing by an attorney.
   (b)   (1)   If a person for whom a hearing is to be conducted under division
(a) above appears at the scheduled hearing or submits evidence in accordance
with that division, the hearing examiner shall consider all evidence and
testimony presented and shall determine whether the city has established, by a
preponderance of evidence, that the person committed the parking infraction. If
the hearing examiner determines that the person committed the infraction, an
order indicating the determination as a judgment against the person and
requiring the person to pay the appropriate fine and any additional penalties,
fees and costs shall be entered in the records of the Parking Violations
Bureau.
      (2)   If a person for whom a hearing is to be conducted under division
(a) above fails to appear at the scheduled hearing and fails to submit evidence
in accordance with that division, the hearing examiner shall, if he or she
determines from any evidence and testimony presented at the hearing, by a
preponderance of the evidence that the person committed the parking infraction,
enter a default judgment against the person and require the person to pay the
appropriate fine and any additional penalties, fee and costs. A default
judgment entered under this division shall be entered in the records of the
Parking Violations Bureau.
      (3)   If a person who is sent a notification of infraction pursuant to §
350.06 hereof does not timely answer, as provided in division (c) of that
section, the hearing examiner of the Parking Violations Bureau shall, if he or
she determines from any evidence and testimony presented to him or her by the
local authority, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the person committed
the parking infraction, enter a default judgment against the person and require
the person to pay the appropriate fine and any additional penalties, fees and
costs. A default judgment entered under this division shall be entered in the
records of the Parking Violations Bureau.
      (4)   If the hearing examiner does not determine, by a preponderance of
the evidence, that a person in any of the classes described in division (b)(1),
(b)(2) or (b)(3) above committed the parking infraction, the hearing examiner
shall enter judgment against the city, shall dismiss the charge of the parking
infraction against the person, and shall enter the judgment and dismissal in
the records of the Parking Violations Bureau.
      (5)   A default judgment entered under this section may be vacated by the
hearing examiner who entered it if all of the following apply:
         A.   The person against whom the default judgment was entered files a
motion with the Parking Violations Bureau within a reasonable time not to
exceed one year of the date of entry of the judgment;
         B.   The motion sets forth a sufficient defense to the parking
infraction out of which the judgment arose; and
         C.   The motion sets forth excusable neglect as to the person’s
failure to attend the hearing or answer the notification of infraction.
   (c)   (1)   Payment of any judgment or default judgment entered against a
person pursuant to this section shall be made to the Violations Clerk of the
Parking Violations Bureau within ten days of the date of entry. All money paid
in satisfaction of a judgment or default judgment shall be disbursed by the
Violations Clerk to the city and the Violations Clerk shall enter the fact of
payment of the money and its disbursement in the records of the Parking
Violations Bureau. If payment is not made within this time period, the judgment
or default judgment may be filed with the Office of the Clerk of Court, Civil
Division, and when so filed, shall have the same force and effect as a money
judgment in a civil action rendered in the Court.
      (2)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4521.08(c), judgments and default judgments
filed with the Municipal Court, Office of the Clerk of Courts, Civil Division,
shall be maintained in a separate index and judgment roll from other judgments
rendered in that Court. Computer printouts, microfilm, microdot, microfiche or
other similar data recording techniques may be utilized to record such
judgments. When a judgment or default judgment is filed with the Municipal
Court, execution may be levied, and such other measures may be taken for its
collection as are authorized for the collection of any money judgment in a
civil action rendered in that Court. The Municipal Court may assess costs
against the judgment debtor, in an amount not exceeding $50 for each parking
infraction, to be paid upon satisfaction of the judgment.
   (d)   (1)   Any person against whom a judgment or default judgment is
entered pursuant to this section, and the city if judgment is entered against
the city pursuant to this section, may appeal the judgment or default judgment
to the Municipal Court by filing notices of appeal with the Parking Violations
Bureau and the Municipal Court within 15 days of the date of entry of the
judgment and by the payment of such reasonable costs as the Court requires.
Upon the filing of an appeal, the Court shall schedule a hearing date and
notify the parties of the date, time and place of the hearing. The hearing
shall be held by the Court in accordance with the rules of the Court. Service
of a notice of appeal under this division by a person does not stay enforcement
and collection of the judgment or default judgment from which appeal is taken
by the person unless the person who files the appeal posts bond with the
Parking Violations Bureau in the amount of the judgment, plus court costs, at
or before service of the notice of appeal.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the judgment on appeal
of the Municipal Court is final and no other appeal of the judgment of the
Parking Violations Bureau and no appeal of the judgment of said Court may be
taken.
   (e)   A default judgment entered pursuant to this section may be filed with
the Municipal Court, Office of the Clerk of Courts, Civil Division, under
division (c) above at any time within three years after the date of issuance of
the parking ticket charging the parking infraction out of which the judgment
arose. This division applies to any ticket issued for an offense that would be
a parking infraction on or after the effective date of Ohio R.C. 4521.08, if
the ticket was issued within three years prior to the effective date of said
section and a warrant has not been issued and served on the operator or owner
of the vehicle involved in that offense.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.08  NONLIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (a)   An owner of a vehicle is not jointly liable with an operator of the
vehicle, whose act or omission resulted in a parking infraction, for the
parking infraction or any fine, penalty, fee or cost arising out of the parking
infraction under this chapter if either of the following apply.
      (1)   The owner answers the charge of the parking infraction under §§
350.05 or
350.06 hereof, the answer denies that he or she committed the infraction and
requests a hearing concerning the infraction, the owner additionally asserts
and provides reasonable evidence at that time to prove that the vehicle, at the
time of the commission of the parking infraction, was being used by the
operator without the owner’s express or implied consent, and the Parking
Violations Bureau determines that the vehicle was being used without the
owner’s express or implied consent at that time. If the Parking Violations
Bureau does not so determine, it shall conduct the hearing concerning the
infraction according to §
350.07 hereof.
      (2)   The owner answers the charge of the parking infraction under §§
350.05 or
350.06 hereof, the answer denies that he or she committed the parking
infraction, the owner additionally submits evidence at that time that proves
that, at the time of the alleged commission of the infraction, the owner was
engaged in the business of renting or leasing vehicles under written rental or
lease agreements, and the owner additionally submits evidence that proves that,
at the time of the alleged commission of the parking infraction, the vehicle in
question was in the care, custody or control of a person other than the owner
pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement. If the owner does not so
prove, the Parking Violations Bureau shall conduct a hearing relative to the
infraction according to §
350.07 hereof.
      (3)   The owner, at a hearing concerning the parking infraction conducted
in accordance with §
350.07 hereof, proves that the vehicle, at the time of the parking infraction,
was being used by the operator without the owner’s express or implied consent
or proves the facts described in Division (a)(2) above.
   (b)   (1)   An owner of a vehicle who is engaged in the business of renting
or leasing vehicles under written rental or lease agreements, but who does not
satisfy the additional requirements of division (a)(2) above, is not liable for
any penalties arising out of a parking infraction involving the vehicle if at
the time of the commission of the parking infraction, the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of a person other than the owner pursuant to a written
rental or lease agreement, and if the owner answers the charge of the parking
infraction by denying that he or she committed the parking infraction or by
paying the fine arising out of the parking infraction within 30 days after
actual receipt of the parking ticket charging the infraction or, if the owner
did not receive the parking ticket within 30 days after receipt of notification
of infraction.
      (2)   Proof that the vehicle was in the care, custody or control of a
person other than the owner pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement at
the time of the alleged parking infraction shall be established by sending a
true copy of the rental or lease agreement or an affidavit to that effect to
the Parking Violations Bureau within 30 days after the date of receipt by the
owner of the parking ticket charging the infraction or, if the owner did not
receive the parking ticket within 30 days after receipt of the notification of
infraction, the submission of a true copy of a written rental or lease
agreement or affidavit shall be prima facie evidence that a vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of a person other than the owner. In addition, any
information required by division (a)(2) above may be provided on magnetic tape
or another computer readable media in a form acceptable to the city or the
Violations Clerk.
      (3)   The affidavit authorized by division (b)(2) above shall, effective
October 9, 1989, be accompanied by a postage-paid, self-addressed envelope, and
said affidavit shall be in a form prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4521.09(B). Within 30 days of the receipt of such
affidavit, the Parking Violations Bureau shall return to the rental or lease
company a receipted copy of said affidavit.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.09  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION PROHIBITED WHEN UNPAID
MULTIPLE JUDGMENTS.
   (a)   If three or more judgments or default judgments have been entered
against a person pursuant to §
350.07 hereof, and the person has not paid the judgments or default judgments
within ten days of the date of entry of the third judgment, the Parking
Violations Bureau may, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4521.10 and rules adopted by the
Registrar, give notice of that fact to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles. The
notice, if given, shall be given not earlier than 16 days nor later than three
years after the date of the entry of the third judgment, and shall be in a form
and manner, and contain such information, as the Registrar prescribes.
   (b)   (1)   Unless the person presents a release as provided in division (c)
below or unless the Registrar is properly notified by the Parking Violations
Bureau that the judgments or default judgments have been paid, dismissed or
reversed on appeal, or that the initial notice was given in error and is
therefore cancelled, neither the Registrar nor any Deputy Registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the notice.
      (2)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall transmit to the Registrar by
means of an electronic transfer system a notice containing the information
contained in the “Ohio Uniform Traffic Tickets” described in Traffic Rule 3(A)
and (B) with respect to such violations.
   (c)   When a notice as provided in division (a) above is given to the
registrar and the judgments or default judgments are subsequently paid,
dismissed or reversed on appeal, or it is discovered that the notice was given
in error and is therefore cancelled, the Parking Violations Bureau shall,
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4521.10 and rules adopted by the Registrar, immediately
notify the Registrar of such payment, dismissal, reversal or cancellation. The
notification shall be in a form and manner, and contain such information, as
the Registrar prescribes. If the initial notice was not given in error, the
Parking Violations Bureau shall charge the person a $5 processing fee for each
judgment or default judgment to cover the costs of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
in administering this section. Upon payment of the fee, the Parking Violations
Bureau shall give to the person a release to be presented at the time of
registering or transferring the registration of a motor vehicle owned or leased
by him or her. All fees collected under this division shall be transmitted
monthly to the Registrar for deposit in the State Highway Safety Fund
established by Ohio R.C. 4501.06.
   (d)   A further notice as prescribed by Ohio R.C. 4521.10 and rules adopted
by the Registrar shall be submitted by the Parking Violations Bureau to the
Registrar indicating that the judgments or default judgments are still
outstanding if such judgments remain outstanding in excess of 13 months.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   Any law enforcement officer, as defined in §
350.01 hereof, shall be authorized to issue parking tickets and shall have
authority to fully enforce any provision of this chapter pertaining to parking
infractions, including, the impoundment and/or immobilization of vehicles
pursuant to §
350.13 hereof.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.11  PARKING TICKET ADOPTED.
   A parking ticket is hereby adopted as the summons and complaint to be used
by law enforcement officers in all cases in which a person is charged with a
parking infraction within the city.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.12  PARKING INFRACTION FINES.
   The fine for committing a parking infraction is hereby established to be
$20, except that the fine for a rush hour parking infraction shall be $25, the
fine for violation of §
351.04(f) restricting parking in handicapped parking locations shall be $250,
and the fine for violation of §
351.16 restricting parking during snow emergencies shall be $25.
(Ord. 196-01, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 350.13  IMPOUNDMENT AND IMMOBILIZATION.
   (a)   A vehicle involved in two or more parking infractions in which
judgments or default judgments have been filed with the Clerk of the Municipal
Court pursuant to §
350.07(c) is subject to impoundment or immobilization by law enforcement
officers of the city or their agents. Impoundment or immobilization pursuant to
this section is permitted without regard to whether the vehicle, at the time of
impoundment or immobilization, is legally parked. The owner of a vehicle
impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be liable for impoundment fees, towing
fees and storage charges as provided by §
307.02 hereof, and the owner of a vehicle immobilized pursuant to this chapter
shall be liable for immobilization fees as provided in §
307.02 hereof.
   (b)   Notwithstanding division (a) above, a vehicle parked, stopped or
standing under circumstances described in §
307.03 hereof is subject to impoundment pursuant to provisions of
Chapter 307 hereof.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 350.14  RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED OR IMMOBILIZED VEHICLES.
   A vehicle impounded or immobilized pursuant to §
350.13 hereof shall be released to the owner upon the owner presenting a valid
certificate of title to the vehicle to the Violations Clerk of the Parking
Violations Bureau and upon the owner either paying the fines, penalties, fees
and costs due on the parking infractions issued or outstanding and payment of
the judgments or default judgments which led to the impoundment or
immobilization; or, posting a bond equal to the amount of said fines,
penalties, fees and costs. In no case, however, shall the owner of a vehicle
impounded or immobilized pursuant to this chapter be required to post a bond in
excess of $1,500 to obtain release of the vehicle.
(Ord. 77-89, passed 11-21-1989)
CHAPTER 351:  PARKING GENERALLY
Section
351.01   Prima facie evidence of unlawful parking
351.02   Prohibiting parking or standing places
351.03   Minimum roadway clearance required
351.04   Parking near curb; handicapped locations on public and private lots
and garages
351.05   Unattended vehicle: duty to stop engine, remove key, set brake and
turn wheels
351.06   Opening vehicle door on traffic side
351.07   Truck zones
351.08   Bus passenger areas
351.09   Parking in bus or taxicab stands
351.10   Time restrictions on bus or commercial car parking
351.11   Truck and recreational vehicle parking in residential areas
351.12   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
351.13   Police may remove unattended vehicle which obstructs traffic
351.14   General time restrictions on parking
351.15   Parking so as to interfere with street cleaning
351.16   Parking prohibited during snow emergency
351.17   Parking on private or public property other than streets
351.18   On-Street Parking Sticker Program
 
351.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles, see §
337.09
   Parking in U1 or U2 use district, see §
1137.01
   Parking junk vehicles, see §
307.07
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus, see §
331.27
   Police may remove ignition key from unattended vehicle, see §
303.03
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 351.01  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing that fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of
ownership.
§ 351.02  PROHIBITING PARKING OR STANDING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (b) below;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
   (b)   A person shall be permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand
or park on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine
not larger than 150 cubic centimeters, or a bicycle or electric bicycle,
provided that the motor- driven cycle, motor scooter, bicycle, or electric
bicycle does not impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division
does not authorize any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.711, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 351.03  MINIMUM ROADWAY CLEARANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such manner or under such conditions as to leave less than
ten feet of width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, official
traffic-control devices or signals of a police officer.
   (b)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
§ 351.04  PARKING NEAR CURB; HANDICAPPED LOCATIONS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LOTS
AND GARAGES.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in this case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (b)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one- way roadway.
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)B. below, no vehicle
shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in this division (c)
(2) irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform the work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (e)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (f)   (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (e) above, or at special
clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned parking
lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in accordance with
that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. above may be towed
or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement agency of
the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall not be
released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the motor
vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         C.   If a person is charged with a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. above, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the person
suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person was
issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person meets
at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (e) above or at a special clearly marked parking
location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking garage, or
other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (g)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (h)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (e)
above shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in accordance
with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special locations,
including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable signs.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (j)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other
handicapping condition.
      (2)   PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO
WALK.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      (3)   SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD.  Any
license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable
windshield placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country or
sovereignty.
   (k)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) or (c) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. above is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in division (k)(2)A.
and (k)(2)B. of this section. Except as otherwise provided in division (k)(2)A.
of this section, an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2.
above shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. An offender who
violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. above shall be fined not more than
$100 if the offender, prior to sentencing, proves either of the following to
the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.1. above, the
offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated
had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was valid or special
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the placard or license plates as described in division (f)(1)A.1.
above.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.2. above, the
offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated
had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special handicapped
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (f)(1)A.2. above.
         B.   In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         C.   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. above does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported
by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained
in any application for employment, license or other right or privilege, or made
in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         D.   The Clerk of the Court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (k)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (e) above. The municipality may use up to
50% of each fine it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section
to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support and assistive technology
programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements within the
municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if governmental
agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) above shall be fined not less than
$250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)
(2) above be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An arrest or conviction for
a violation of division (f)(2) above does not constitute a criminal record and
need not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (h) above shall be punished as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (k)(4) above, the
offender shall be issued a warning; or
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (h) above or of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall not be issued a
warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking location that is
not properly marked or whose markings are not properly maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
§ 351.05  UNATTENDED VEHICLE: DUTY TO STOP ENGINE, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE AND
TURN WHEELS.
   (a)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         B.   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
         C.   An emergency vehicle;
         D.   A public safety vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 351.06  OPENING VEHICLE DOOR ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   (a)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 351.07  TRUCK ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to those zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 351.08  BUS PASSENGER AREAS.
   Bus loading and unloading areas shall be established at locations determined
by the Mayor. Such areas shall not be more than 100 feet in length along the
curb side of the various streets upon which busses are operated and shall be
identified by. appropriate signs indicating no stopping or parking of any kind
within the area.
§ 351.09  PARKING IN BUS OR TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when the
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
the stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (d)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 351.10  TIME RESTRICTIONS ON BUS OR COMMERCIAL CAR PARKING.
   A bus or commercial car shall not park on any street in the city, except for
a period of time not exceeding three minutes while actually discharging or
taking on passengers, or for a period of time not exceeding ten minutes while
engaged in receiving or discharging goods, wares or merchandise while outside a
truck zone.
§ 351.11  TRUCK AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   No person shall park a truck, commercial tractor, trailer, semi-trailer, a
motor home or recreational vehicle on a roadway or driveway at any time in
front of or alongside property used for residential purposes except in case of
a breakdown of such vehicle, or for loading and unloading purposes.
(Ord. 48-98, passed 6-30-1998)  Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.12  SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (b)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
§ 351.13  POLICE MAY REMOVE UNATTENDED VEHICLE WHICH OBSTRUCTS TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the officer may move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of the highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle
to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 351.14  GENERAL TIME RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING.
   (a)   No vehicle shall park, stop, stand or be permitted to remain on any
street in the city from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. except on streets where Council
and the Mayor have determined that off-street parking facilities on those
streets, hereafter listed by this section, are not adequate, and signs are
posted on those streets allowing parking, stopping and standing during
designated hours. However, on such streets, no vehicle shall park, stop, stand
or be otherwise permitted to remain for a continuous period of 24 hours.
List of Overnight Parking Streets
List of Overnight Parking Streets
Allandale Avenue
Allegheny Circle
Amherst Street
Ardenall
Belmar
Bender Avenue
Brunswick
Bryn Mawr
Burnette
Caledonia
Carlyon (1600-1700 Block)
Chapman (1700 Block)
Charles
Clairborne
Collamer
Delmont
E. 125th Street
E. 133rd (Mann-Woodworth)
E. 134th (Mann-Woodworth)
E. 135th (Mann-Woodworth)
E. 137th Street
E. 139th Street
E. 141st Street
E. 142nd Street
E. 143rd Street
E. 145th Street
E. 146th Street
Eastham
Eddington
Eddy Road
Elberon
Elderwood (Wymore-Strathmore)
Elsinore
Endora
Fernwood
Gainsboro
Garfield
Glenmont
Graham
Grandview
Grasmere
Greyton
Hanover Drive
Hartford Avenue
Hartshorn
Hastings Avenue
Hillcrest Road
Hillside
Holyoke
Hower
Ivanhoe Road
Lakefront (Euclid-Hayden)
Lakeview
Lambert Street
Lee Road
Lockwood
Luxor
Marloes
Milan
Mont
Mount Union Street
Mount Vernon
Nelacrest
Neladale
Nelamere Road
Nelaview
Nelawood
North Lockwood
North Taylor Road
Northfleld Avenue
Orinoco
Page Avenue
Penrose
Plymouth
Pontiac
Potomac
Private Drive
Reyburn Road
Richmond Place
Rosedale
Rosemont
Roxford
Rozelle
Savannah
Scioto
Shawview
Sheldon
Stanwood
Strathmore (RR-Hayden)
Superior Road
Van Buren
Vassar
Walden Road
Wellesley
Welton
Wheeler
Woodlawn
Wymore (1700 Block)
 
   (b)   (1)   No garage or repair shop owner or his or her agents or employees
shall park cars on any city street for storage or repair purposes for a period
of time longer than one hour in any one day, provided that nothing in this
section shall prohibit emergency repairs or the changing of tires or prohibit
parking for a period longer than one hour in any one day between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. of cars driven regularly by such garage or repair shop
owner or his or her agents or employees as means of transportation.
      (2)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any alley or public
ground not otherwise governed by law with respect to parking within the city
for a period in excess of 48 hours except as authorized by law. Any vehicle so
parked shall be deemed abandoned and shall be subject to be impounded as
provided in §
307.03. Violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject to the
penalty prescribed in §
303.99 in addition to the fees assessed as provided in §
307.02.
(Ord. 136-04, passed 8-17-2004)  Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.15  PARKING SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH STREET CLEANING.
   The Police Department may authorize the erection of appropriate signs upon
streets or parts of streets which are about to be cleaned of dirt, rubbish or
snow by the Service Division. When signs have been posted, no person shall park
a vehicle during the time when such street or part of a street is so posted
prohibiting parking thereon.
§ 351.16  PARKING PROHIBITED DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Whenever, during any period of 24 hours or less, snow falls in the
city, or in any section thereof, to a depth of two inches or more, an emergency
is declared to exist in that such a depth of snow constitutes a serious public
hazard, impairing transportation, the movement of food, fuel and other
supplies, medical care, fire, health and police protection, and other vital
facilities of the city. Such emergency shall continue until an announcement by
the Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Chief of Police, that snow plowing
operations have been completed. The Mayor or the Chief of Police shall make a
reasonable effort to announce the existence of the emergency by the use of
local press and radio and television stations, and shall make similar
reasonable efforts to announce the termination of such emergency. However,
owners and operators of motor vehicles shall have the responsibility to
determine existing weather conditions and to comply with emergency parking
regulations when such emergency is in effect.
      (1)   During the period of the emergency, the Mayor of the Chief of
Police may prohibit the parking of vehicles upon any or all of the city streets
designated hereinafter as follows.
Belvoir Boulevard from the northerly to the easterly city limits.
Coit Avenue from Euclid to Woodworth Avenues.
Coventry Road from Superior Road to the southerly city limits.
East 152nd Street from Coit Avenue to the northerly city limits.
Eddy Road from Euclid Avenue to the northerly city limits.
Elderwood Avenue from Taylor Road to Coit Avenue.
Emily Street from Superior Avenue to Eddy Road.
Euclid Avenue from the southerly to the northeasterly city limits.
Fay Street from Euclid Avenue to Emily Street.
Forest Hill Avenue from Superior Road to the southerly city limits.
Forest Hills Boulevard from Euclid Avenue to the easterly city limits.
Hayden Avenue from Superior to Woodworth Avenues.
Hillsboro Road from Euclid Avenue to Belvoir Boulevard.
Ivanhoe Road from Euclid Avenue to the northwesterly city limits.
Lakeview Avenue from Euclid Avenue to the westerly city limits.
Lee Boulevard from Euclid Avenue to the southerly city limits.
Noble Road from East 152nd Street to the southerly city limits.
Northvale Boulevard from Forest Hills Boulevard to the easterly city limits.
Phillips Street from the westerly city limits to Hayden Avenue.
Phillips Street Extension from Rozelle to Hayden Avenue.
Shaw Avenue from Euclid Avenue to the westerly city limits.
Superior Avenue from Euclid Avenue to the westerly city limits.
Superior Road from Euclid Avenue to the easterly city limits.
Taylor Road from Elderwood Avenue to the easterly city limits.
Terrace Road from Noble to Superior Roads.
Woodworth Avenue from East 152nd Street to St. Clair Avenue.
 
      (2)   During the emergency, no person shall park or cause or permit to be
parked, or permit to remain parked, or abandon or leave unattended any motor
vehicle of any kind or description, upon such specified streets. However,
vehicles may be parked for a period of not longer than three minutes for actual
loading or unloading of passengers, or 30 minutes for actual loading or
unloading of property, provided that an operator of such vehicle is immediately
available, and provided further that no other ordinance restricting parking as
to time or place is violated thereby. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 353 providing for parking meters, motor vehicles parked in meter zones
shall be subject to the terms of this section during an emergency.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section may be moved
or may be impounded in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 307.
   (b)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Mayor or the Chief of Police, it
becomes necessary to move parked vehicles in order to remove snow from the
streets, the Police Department shall have the authority to move vehicles for
that purpose.
(Ord. 7400, passed 4-1-1980)
§ 351.17  PARKING ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY OTHER THAN STREETS.
   (a)   The parking of vehicles on public or private property, excluding
dedicated streets and ways set out for public travel and heretofore regulated,
shall be prohibited without the consent of the owner of such private property
or the proper governmental agency in charge of such public property.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be parked on public property in violation of rules
and regulations established by the governmental agency controlling such public
property.
   (c)   No vehicle shall be parked on any private property in violation of any
regulations established by the owner of such private property.
   (d)   The provisions of divisions (b) and (c) above shall not be applicable
unless the private or public property is posted in a conspicuous manner setting
forth the prohibition of parking or the conditions and regulations under which
parking is permitted.
   (e)   Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in §
303.99.
§ 351.18  ON-STREET PARKING STICKER PROGRAM.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to establish and maintain an on-street
parking sticker program for the benefit of authorized residents.
   (b)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to create and issue an appropriate
sticker to be issued at an annual, renewable fee of $60 to authorized residents
which should be placed in the rear window, (driver’s side) upper left hand
corner.
   (c)   It is Council’s understanding that the initial streets to be
designated by the Mayor for this program are in the Rozelle/Superior area and
include the following.
Bender
Delmont
E. 125th Street
Elberon
Hower
North Lockwood
Rozelle
South Carlyon
 
   (d)   The Mayor is further hereby authorized to create whatever necessary
signage indicating that on-street parking shall be permitted for such
authorized vehicles for a period not in excess of 24 consecutive hours.
   (e)   The city’s On-Street Parking Sticker Program shall be administered by
the city’s Parking Ticket Bureau under the direction of the Director of Finance
or his or her designee.
(Ord. 126-92, passed 12-15-1992; Ord. 112-99, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 351.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
350.12 for parking infraction fines.)
CHAPTER 353:  PARKING METERS ON STREETS
Section
353.01   Meter zones established
353.02   Marking meter spaces
353.03   Meter description and operation
353.04   Meter time limits
353.05   Operation of parking meters
353.06   Violations
353.07   Control of parking meters and moneys
353.08   Use of funds
 
353.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Metered areas subject to snow emergency parking, see §
351.16
   Off-street parking facilities, see
Ch. 355
   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking, see §
351.01
§ 353.01  METER ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   The following named and described areas, streets or portions thereof, and
such other areas as may hereafter be included in this section by amendment,
shall constitute parking meter zones, in which there shall be limited parking
of vehicles as prescribed by provisions of this chapter, namely: Euclid Avenue
(both sides) from the easterly to the westerly city limits; Hayden Avenue (both
sides) from Doan Avenue to Woodworth Road; Noble Road (both sides) from
Caledonia Avenue to the southerly city limits; Superior Avenue (both sides)
from Terrace Road to East 125th Street; that portion of all streets
intersecting the above named streets and extending from the above named streets
for a sufficient distance to permit the establishment of not more than ten
parking meter spaces on each side of such intersecting streets.
§ 353.02  MARKING METER SPACES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to establish
individual parking meter spaces in such portion or portions of the parking
meter zones designated and described in §
353.01 and in such other zones as may hereafter be established, as are in his
or her opinion necessary for the proper regulation of traffic. Each parking
meter space shall be designated by lines painted or durably marked on the
curbing or surface of the street and shall have a parking meter installed
behind the curb adjacent thereto.
§ 353.03  METER DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION.
   Each parking meter shall he or she so constructed as to display, upon the
deposit of appropriate coins in lawful money of the United States of America, a
signal showing legal parking for the period of time commensurate with the
combination of coins deposited in accordance with the schedule set forth by
this chapter. Each parking meter shall be so constructed that, upon the
expiration of the legal time limits, the meter will indicate by a proper
visible signal that the legal parking period has expired. Instructions shall be
displayed on each parking meter showing the legal parking time permitted by the
insertion of proper coins, the maximum continuous legal parking time permitted
for any vehicle, and the periods during which the parking meter time limits
established by this Traffic Code are in force.
§ 353.04  METER TIME LIMITS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking meter space nor
allow such vehicle to remain in such parking meter space except pursuant to the
provisions of this Traffic Code between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
except on Sundays and holidays. Within the meaning of this chapter, the term
HOLIDAYS includes the following days only:
         A.   The first day of January (New Year’s Day);
         B.   The third Monday in January (Martin Luther King Day);
         C.   The third Monday in February (President’s Day);
         D.   The last Monday in May (Memorial Day);
         E.   The fourth day of July (Independence Day);
         F.   The first Monday in September (Labor Day);
         G.   The second Monday in October (Columbus Day);
         H.   The eleventh day of November (Veterans Day);
         I.   The fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day); and
         J.   The 25th day of December (Christmas Day).
      (2)   On Sundays and holidays and between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m., the provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the parking of vehicles
in parking meter spaces shall not be operative and the parking of vehicles in
such parking meter spaces will be governed and controlled by such legislation
and Police Department regulations as are now in force or may be hereafter
promulgated.
   (b)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sundays and
holidays, the maximum continuous legal parking time permitted for any vehicle
in any parking meter space shall be determined by the Chief of Police, shall be
clearly indicated on the parking meter adjacent to such space and shall in no
event exceed two hours. Subject to such maximum determined by the Chief of
Police and the other provisions of this Traffic Code, the parking of a vehicle
in a parking meter space shall be lawful for:
      (1)   Twenty-four minutes upon the deposit of two five-cent coins or one
ten-cent coin;
      (2)   Sixty minutes upon the deposit of $0.25 in the form of a quarter or
in any combination of five-cent coins, or ten-cent coins, or both, totaling
$0.25; and
      (3)   One hundred twenty minutes upon the deposit of two quarters for 120
minutes, or upon deposit of any combination of five-cent coins or ten-cent
coins, or both, totaling the foregoing amounts in coins of the United States of
America, or $0.25 for every additional hour above the first 60 minutes.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (a) and (b) above, the
Chief of Police, for the proper regulation of traffic, may entirely prohibit
parking in any parking meter space or parking meter zone at any time for such
period or periods as he or she may determine. Such prohibition or limitation
shall be indicated by the installation of appropriate signs, meter hoods or
other devices.
(Ord. 6833, passed 3-2-1976; Ord. 7702, passed 1-17-1984)  Penalty, see §
353.99
§ 353.05  OPERATION OF PARKING METERS.
   (a)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except on Sundays and
holidays and except for the periods during which parking is entirely prohibited
pursuant to §
353.04(c), and except in a period of emergency determined by an officer of the
Fire Department or Police Department, or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, police sign or traffic-control device, when any vehicle shall
be parked in any parking meter space, the operator of such vehicle shall, upon
entering such parking meter space, immediately deposit or cause to be deposited
in such parking meter such proper coin or coins in lawful money of the United
States as required by this chapter for such parking meter.
   (b)   Failure to deposit such proper coin or coins shall constitute a
violation of this Traffic Code. Upon the deposit of such coin, the parking
meter space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during the period of time
for which coins have been deposited pursuant to §
353.04, but not to exceed the maximum time determined by the Chief of Police
for such parking meter space. However, any person parking a vehicle in a
parking meter space adjacent to a parking meter which indicates that unused
time has been left in the meter by the previous occupant of such space shall
not be required to deposit additional coins so long as his or her occupancy of
such space does not exceed the indicated unused time.
   (c)   If such vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking meter space
after the parking meter time limit determined for such parking meter space has
expired, and if the meter shall indicate such illegal parking, such vehicle
shall be considered as parking overtime and beyond the period of legal parking
time, and such parking will be deemed a violation of this Traffic Code.
§ 353.06  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this Traffic Code
for any person:
   (a)   To cause, allow or permit any vehicle to be parked overtime or beyond
the maximum period of legal parking time established for any parking meter
space as herein described, or to deposit in any parking meter any coin for the
purpose of parking beyond the maximum legal parking time for the particular
parking meter space.
   (b)   To park any vehicle in any parking meter space adjacent to any parking
meter while such meter is displaying a signal indicating illegal parking
without immediately depositing in such parking meter the coin or coins provided
by this Traffic Code.
   (c)   To park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such lines or markings.
   (d)   To deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provision of
this Traffic Code.
   (e)   To deposit or insert or cause to be deposited or inserted in any
parking meter any matter or substance other than lawful coins of the United
States of America, whether or not such matter or substance is inserted or
deposited as a substitute for such lawful coins, or to perform any act other
than the deposit of such coins for the purpose of securing or increasing the
meter indication of legal parking time.
   (f)   To fail to comply with any other provision of this chapter.
§ 353.07  CONTROL OF PARKING METERS AND MONEYS.
   The Director of Finance shall have charge of collecting and accounting for
the moneys deposited in parking meters. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the regulation, control, operation, maintenance and use of
parking meters.
§ 353.08  USE OF FUNDS.
   The receipts from parking meters shall be credited to the General Fund.
§ 353.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
350.12 for parking infraction fines.)
CHAPTER 355:  OFF-STREET PARKING METERS
Section
355.01   Off-street meter areas designated
355.02   Definitions
355.03   Marking meter spaces
355.04   Meter description and operation
355.05   Compliance required; power to prohibit all parking
355.06   Operation of parking meters
355.07   Parking permits
355.08   Hawley Park lot rules
355.09   RTA Transit System lot rules
355.10   1586 Hayden opposite Scioto Avenue parking lot
355.11   133rd and Second Avenue parking lot
355.12   Shaw-Hayden lot rules
355.13   Noble-Nela lot rules
355.14   Roxford-Euclid parking lot
355.15   1733 Page Avenue parking lot
355.16   Violations
355.17   Control of moneys
355.18   Use of funds
Cross-reference:
   Meters on streets, see
Ch. 353
   Off-street parking facilities, see Ohio R.C. 717.05 et seq.
§ 355.01  OFF-STREET METER AREAS DESIGNATED.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to operate and maintain the
following described off-street parking facilities for motor vehicles within the
city.
   (a)   Hawley Park parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by the city
having a frontage of approximately 70 feet on the southeasterly side of Euclid
Avenue between Taylor Road and Hastings Avenue, and extending southeasterly to
Terrace Road, and identified as Parcel No. 673-11-11 on the County Auditor’s
records.
   (b)   RTA transit system parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by the
City of Cleveland, the RTA Transit System and leased to the city, and having a
frontage of approximately 125 feet on the northerly side of Euclid Avenue, a
depth of approximately 130 feet, and located opposite Beersford Place, and
identified as Parcel No. 672-12-15 on the County Auditor’s records.
   (c)   Shaw-Hayden parking lot. A portion of land owned by the city located
between Ardenall Avenue and Shaw Avenue at the rear of properties fronting on
the east side of Hayden Avenue, and identified as Parcels No. 671-10-24, -25, -
26, -122, -127 and -128 on the County Auditor’s records.
   (d)   Noble-Nela parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by the city
extending from Helmsdale Road to Nelaview Road, a distance of approximately 240
feet and having a width of approximately 70 feet, including the rear portion of
lots fronting on the westerly side of Noble Road from Helmsdale Road to
Nelaview Road, and consisting of a total of about 0.40 acres of land.
   (e)   Lots designated by the Mayor. The Mayor may establish off-street
parking areas designating therein either meter spaces to be regulated in the
same manner as provided in §§
355.03 et seq. or permit spaces therein to be regulated as provided in §
355.07 or a combination of both types of spaces by a vote of a majority of all
members thereof.
   (f)   1586 Hayden opposite Scioto Avenue parking lot. A portion of real
estate owned by the city having an approximate frontage of 91.5 feet on the
west side of Hayden Avenue, a depth of approximately 103 feet and identified as
Parcel No. 671-5-191 and 192 on the County Auditor’s records and containing 20
parking spaces.
   (g)   133rd and Second Avenue parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by
the city located at the northeast corner of E. 133rd and Second Avenue having
an approximate frontage of 110 feet along the east side of E. 133rd Street and
approximately 90-foot frontage along the north side of Second Avenue identified
as Parcel No. 671-6-90 on the County Auditor’s records and containing 20
parking spaces.
   (h)   Roxford-Euclid parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by the city
located at the southwest corner of Roxford and Euclid Avenue having an
approximate frontage of 147 feet along the southwest side of Roxford Road and
approximately 60-foot frontage along the southeast side of Euclid Avenue
identified as Parcel No. 672-24-8 on the County Auditor’s records and
containing 20 parking spaces.
   (i)   1733 Page Avenue parking lot. A portion of real estate owned by the
city having an approximate frontage of 68 feet on the northeast side of Page
Avenue a depth of approximately 150 feet and identified as Parcel No. 673-6-27
on the County Auditor’s records and containing 24 parking spaces.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969; Ord. 6833, passed 3-2-1976; Ord. 7562, passed 6-
15-1982)
§ 355.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Includes only passenger cars and trucks with a one-ton
capacity rating or less.
   PARK  or PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon
the property herein described otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers or unloading
merchandise or in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or signals.
   PARKING METER.  Includes any mechanical device or meter not inconsistent
with this chapter placed or erected for the regulation of parking by authority
of this chapter.
   PARKING METER SPACE.  Any space which is designated for the parking of a
single vehicle by markings on the surface of the parking lot and adjacent to
which a parking meter has been installed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   PERMIT PARKING SPACE.  Any space in a particular off-street parking lot
reserved for those holding permits to park in that particular off-street
parking lot.
§ 355.03  MARKING METER SPACES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized within the limits described in this chapter
to establish individual parking meter spaces and permit parking spaces in such
portion or portions of parking lots as are, in his or her opinion, necessary
for the proper parking of vehicles and the regulation of traffic within the
lots. Each parking space shall be designated by lines painted or durably marked
on the surface of the parking lots.
§ 355.04  METER DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION.
   Each parking meter shall be so constructed as to display, upon the deposit
of appropriate coins in lawful money of the United States of America, a signal
showing legal parking for the period of time commensurate with the combination
of coins deposited in accordance with the schedule set forth by this chapter.
Each parking meter shall be so constructed that, upon the expiration of such
legal time limit, the meter will indicate by a proper visible signal that the
legal parking period has expired. Instructions shall be displayed on each
parking meter showing the legal parking time permitted by the insertion of
proper coin or coins, the maximum continuous legal parking time permitted for
any vehicle, and the periods during which the parking meter time limits
established by this chapter are in force.
§ 355.05  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; POWER TO PROHIBIT ALL PARKING.
   (a)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking meter space nor permit
such vehicle to remain in such parking meter space except pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Chief of
Police, for the proper regulation of traffic, may entirely prohibit parking in
any parking meter space at any time for such period or periods as he or she may
determine. Such prohibition or limitation shall be indicated by the
installation of appropriate signs, meter hoods or other devices.
§ 355.06  OPERATION OF PARKING METERS.
   Except for the periods during which parking is entirely prohibited pursuant
to §
355.05(b) and except in a period of emergency determined by an officer of the
Fire Department or Police Department or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, police sign or traffic-control sign or signal, when any vehicle
shall be parked in any parking meter space, the operator of such vehicle shall,
upon parking such vehicle in the parking meter space, immediately deposit or
cause to be deposited in the parking meter such proper coin or coins in lawful
money of the United States as is required by this chapter for such parking
meter. Failure to deposit such proper coin or coins shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. Upon the deposit of such coin, the parking meter
space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during the period of time for
which coins have been deposited pursuant to the terms of this chapter, but not
to exceed the maximum time described in this chapter for such parking space.
However, any person parking a vehicle in a parking meter space adjacent to a
parking meter which indicates that unused time has been left in the meter by
the previous occupant of such space shall not be required to deposit additional
coins so long as his or her occupancy of such space does not exceed the
indicated unused time. If such vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking
meter space after the parking meter time limit determined for such parking
meter space has expired, and if the meter shall indicate such illegal parking,
then such vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime and beyond the period
of legal parking time, and such parking will be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
§ 355.07  PARKING PERMITS.
   (a)   The Mayor is authorized to issue permits for the parking of motor
vehicles in parking spaces of a specific off-street parking facility in
accordance with the terms of this chapter. Such permits shall be honored only
in the parking lot specified in the permit. Every application for a parking
permit shall be submitted to the Finance Director on forms prescribed by him or
her. The fee for such permit shall be $30, payable in advance, for a three-
month period beginning January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1. The fee shall
be prorated if permits are purchased after January 1, April 1, July 1 and
October 1. Refunds will be made to a permit holder upon a request to terminate
submitted in writing to the Finance Director. Refunds will be made only on the
basis of unused full month periods at the rate of $10 for each unused full
month.
   (b)   Permits are not transferable except in the case where the holder of a
permit disposes of the vehicle and procures another vehicle. Each vehicle shall
require a separate permit. Unless otherwise provided herein, such permit shall
entitle the holder thereof to park, at any and all times, the vehicle
designated by such permit in any unused parking meter space within the area
covered by this chapter if no parking permit space is available for his or her
vehicle, and without the payment of the parking meter fees provided by the
terms of this chapter. Except as to the use of the parking meters and the
payment of parking meter fees, permit holders shall be subject to all of the
other terms, conditions and penalties provided in this chapter, and shall be
subject to such other rules and regulations as the Mayor may provide. In
addition to the other penalties provided, the Mayor shall have the right to
revoke any permit for failure to comply with the terms of this chapter or with
his or her written instructions. In the event of such revocation, the fees
charged for such permit shall be refunded on a prorata basis as described in
this section.
(Ord. 6833, passed 3-2-1976)
§ 355.08  HAWLEY PARK LOT RULES.
   Hawley Park parking lot shall be subject to the following specific rules and
regulations regarding its operation.
   (a)   There shall be in this parking lot not more than 30 permit parking
spaces and 81 parking meters.
   (b)   The maximum number of hours of metered parking shall be six hours.
   (c)   The cost of metered parking shall be $0.10 for 60 minutes, $0.20 for
120 minutes, $0.25 for 150 minutes and $0.60 for six hours. No coin except
nickels, dimes and quarters shall be used in these meters.
   (d)   The period of enforcement shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 6833, passed 3-2-1976)
§ 355.09  RTA TRANSIT SYSTEM LOT RULES.
   The RTA Transit System parking lot shall be subject to the following
specific rules and regulations regarding its operation.
   (a)   There shall be in this parking lot not more than 25 permit parking
spaces and parking in such spaces shall be by parking permits issued pursuant
to §
355.07; in addition, there shall be not more than 76 parking meters.
   (b)   The maximum hours of metered parking shall be six hours.
   (c)   The cost of metered parking shall be $0.10 for 60 minutes, $0.25 for
120 minutes, $0.25 for 150 minutes and $0.60 for six hours. No coins except
nickels, dimes and quarters shall be used in these meters.
   (d)   The period of enforcement shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 7651, passed 7-19-1983)
§ 355.10  1586 HAYDEN OPPOSITE SCIOTO AVENUE PARKING LOT.
   Hayden opposite Scioto Avenue parking lot shall be subject to the following
specific rules and regulations regarding its operation.
   (a)   There shall be in these parking lots not more than 20 permit parking
spaces and no parking meters.
   (b)   There shall be no parking except by parking permits issued pursuant to
§
355.07.
   (c)   The enforcement period shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
§ 355.11  133RD AND SECOND AVENUE PARKING LOT.
   (a)   There shall be in these parking lots not more than 20 permit parking
spaces and no parking meters.
   (b)   There shall be no parking except by parking permits issued pursuant to
§
355.07.
   (c)   The enforcement period shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
§ 355.12  SHAW-HAYDEN LOT RULES.
   The Shaw-Hayden parking lot shall be subject to the following specific rules
and regulations regarding its operation:
   (a)   There shall be in this parking lot not more than 12 permit parking
spaces and no parking meters.
   (b)   Free parking shall be permitted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. for a maximum of two hours.
   (c)   Free parking shall be permitted between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m. except in permit parking spaces.
   (d)   The enforcement period shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
§ 355.13  NOBLE-NELA LOT RULES.
   The Noble-Nela parking lot shall be subject to the following specific rules
and regulations regarding its operation.
   (a)   There shall be in this parking lot not more than ten permit parking
spaces and not more than 29 parking meters.
   (b)   The maximum hours of metered parking shall be two hours.
   (c)   The cost of metered parking shall be $0.05 for each 30 minutes, $0.10
for one hour and $0.20 for two hours. No coins except nickels and dimes shall
be used in these meters.
   (d)   Permits issued by the City of Cleveland Heights for permit parking in
the Cleveland Heights Noble-Nela parking lot shall be honored in the East
Cleveland portion of the Noble-Nela parking lot.
   (e)   The enforcement period shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 6833, passed 3-2-1976)
§ 355.14  ROXFORD-EUCLID PARKING LOT.
   (a)   There shall be in this parking lot five permit parking spaces, and not
more than 15 parking meters.
   (b)   The maximum hours of metered parking shall be 12 hours from 8:00 a.m.
to 8:00 p.m.
   (c)   The cost of metered parking shall be $0.10 for 60 minutes, $0.20 for
120 minutes, $0.25 for 150 minutes and $0.60 for six hours. No coins except
nickels, dimes and quarters shall be used in these meters.
   (d)   The period of enforcement shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
§ 355.15  1733 PAGE AVENUE PARKING LOT.
   (a)   There shall be in these parking lots not more than 20 permit parking
spaces and no parking meters.
   (b)   There shall be no parking except by parking permits issued pursuant to
§
355.07.
   (c)   The enforcement period shall be 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
§ 355.16  VIOLATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful and a
violation of the provisions of this chapter for any person:
   (a)   To cause, allow or permit any vehicle to be parked overtime or beyond
the maximum period of legal parking time established for any parking meter
space as herein described, or to deposit in any parking meter any coin for the
purpose of parking beyond the maximum legal parking time for the particular
parking meter space;
   (b)   To park any vehicle in any parking meter space adjacent to any parking
meter while such meter is displaying a signal indicating illegal parking
without immediately depositing in such parking meter the coin or coins provided
by this chapter;
   (c)   To park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space, or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such lines or markings;
   (d)   To park in a permit parking space without at that time having a permit
issued pursuant to §
355.07, except where free parking is authorized;
   (e)   To deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter;
   (f)   To deposit or insert or cause to be deposited or inserted in any
parking meter any matter or substance other than lawful coins of the United
States of America, whether or not such matter or substance is inserted or
deposited as a substitute for such lawful coins, or to perform any act other
than the deposit of such coins for the purpose of securing or increasing the
meter indication of legal parking time; and/or
   (g)   To fail to comply with any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 355.17  CONTROL OF MONEYS.
   The Director of Finance shall have charge of the collection of and
accounting for the moneys deposited in parking meters or paid for parking
permits.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
§ 355.18  USE OF FUNDS.
   Receipts from metered parking fees and permits shall be credited to the
General Fund.
(Ord. 7562, passed 6-15-1982)
CHAPTER 356:  RESERVED PARKING FOR CITY COUNCIL USE
Section
356.01   Designation of reserved Council spaces
 
356.99   Penalty
§ 356.01  DESIGNATION OF RESERVED COUNCIL SPACES.
   (a)   The Mayor of the City of East Cleveland shall designate at no charge
to Council the first five parking spaces along the north retaining wall of the
eastern portion of the City Hall parking lot for reserved parking by Council
members or their designees ("Reserved Council Spaces").
   (b)   Each of the Reserved Council Spaces will contain an orange traffic
cone blocking access to the reserved parking space.
   (c)   Each of the Reserved Council Spaces will contain a posted sign
providing notice that the parking space is reserved for Council only, during
the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. daily, including weekends and holidays.
   (d)   There will also be posted within the immediate proximity of the
Reserved Council Spaces a statement that violators may be towed and a fine
imposed in the amount of not less than $500 pursuant to §
356.99.
   (e)   The markings on the ground shall represent and be marked clearly
stating in space 1, Council President, space 2, Council VP and the third and
fourth spaces shall be marked Council-at-Large, the final space shall be marked
Councilor.
(Ord. 17-20, passed 6-2-2020)  Penalty, see §
356.99
§ 356.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   No person shall cause, allow or permit any vehicle to idle in, park in
or occupy the Reserved Council Spaces during the restricted hours of 8:00 a.m.
to 11:00 p.m. daily, including weekends and holidays.
   (b)   Anyone who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $500.
   (c)   In addition to imposition of a fine, the officer issuing a citation
for a violation of this chapter may provide for the towing and storage of any
vehicle parked illegally in the Reserved Council Spaces.
(Ord. 17-20, passed 6-2-2020)
TITLE 9:  PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
   Chapter
      
371   Pedestrians
      
373   Bicycles and Motorcycles
      375   Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All Purpose Vehicles
CHAPTER 371:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
371.01   Right-of-way in crosswalk
371.02   Right-of-way of blind person
371.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk; diagonal crossings at
intersections
371.04   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
371.05   Walking along highways
371.06   Use of highway for soliciting; riding on outside of vehicles
371.07   Right-of-way on sidewalk
371.08   Yielding to public safety vehicle
371.09   Walking on highway while under the influence
371.10   On bridges or railroad crossings
371.11   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
371.12   Pedestrian violation waivers
 
371.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §§
313.01,
313.03
   Pedestrian control signals, see §
313.05
   Pedestrian defined, see §
301.01
   Pedestrian prohibited on freeways, see §
303.06
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 371.01  RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if required
by R.C. § 4511.132, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (c)   Division (a) above does not apply under the conditions stated in R.C.
§ 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 371.02  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (a)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 371.03  CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK; DIAGONAL CROSSINGS AT
INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (e)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
§ 371.04  MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 371.05  WALKING ALONG HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (c)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 371.06  USE OF HIGHWAY FOR SOLICITING; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) below, no person shall
stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Council, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance of a permit
to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of the
organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a vehicle
by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. § 4511.051
(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit shall be
valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the permit, in
any calendar year. The Council also may specify the locations where
contributions may be solicited and may impose any other restrictions on or
requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations are to be
conducted that the Council considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (b)(2) above, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION  means an
organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a currently
valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt status of the
organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(3)(c).
   (c)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (d)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (e)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semi-trailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semi- trailer.
   (f)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semi-trailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (a) to (d) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates any provision of divisions (a) to (d) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions (a) to (d) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e) or (f) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 371.07  RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALK.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 371.08  YIELDING TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (b)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 371.09  WALKING ON HIGHWAY WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them, to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 371.10  ON BRIDGES OR RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 371.11  PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 371.12  PEDESTRIAN VIOLATION WAIVERS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
303.99. any person who violates any provision of §§
371.03 to
371.06,
371.08 and
371.10 may execute and file with the city’s Clerk Municipal Court an instrument
waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit and warrant, together with the
reading of such affidavit and the right to be present personally at the trial
of such action, and further waiving the right of appeal in error and
authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered and the defendant submitted to the
mercy of the Court.
(Ord. 7598, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 371.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for misdemeanor classifications and penalties.)
CHAPTER 373:  BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
373.01   Code application to bicycles
373.02   Riding upon seats; handle bars; helmets and glasses
373.03   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
373.04   Riding on right side of roadway; riding abreast
373.05   Signal device on bicycle
373.06   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
373.07   Safe riding regulations for bicycles
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
373.09   Parking of bicycle
373.10   Motorized bicycle operation, equipment and license
373.11   Riding on sidewalks
373.12   Impounding bicycles
373.13   Helmets for persons operating bicycles, skateboards, roller-skates or
in-line skates
373.14   Electric bicycles
 
373.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
301.01
   Bicycles prohibited on freeways, see §
303.06
   Motorized bicycle equipment, see OAC Ch. 4501-23
   Motorcycle brakes, see §
337.18(b)
   Motorcycle defined, see §
301.01
   Motorcycle headlight, see §
337.03
   Motorcycle operator’s license required, see §
335.01(a)
   See sectional histories for similar state law Motorcycle protective
equipment, see OAC Ch. 4501-17
§ 373.01  CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (a) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (a) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator or by a motor vehicle operator when the trier of fact finds that the
violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders
or electric bicycle riders at the time of the violation, the court,
notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to the contrary, may
require the bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator to take and successfully complete a bicycling skills course approved
by the court in addition to or in lieu of any penalty otherwise prescribed by
this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for that violation.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) above do not apply to violations of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
   (e)   Every person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control devices and signals applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
§ 373.02  RIDING UPON SEATS; HANDLE BARS; HELMETS AND GLASSES.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (b)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon the bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon the motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(3) below, no person shall
operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using safety
glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division (c)(3)
below, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who holds a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice” designation that is
currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle
on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be a passenger on a
motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing a protective
helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device shall
conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         B.   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2)A. above do not apply to a person who
operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed motorcycle when the
occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the occupants.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 373.03  ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   (a)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle , coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle to
attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 373.04  RIDING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles  or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles or motorcycles.
   (c)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(f).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 373.05  SIGNAL DEVICE ON BICYCLE.
   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 373.06  LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (a)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in §
337.02, shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least rive hundred feet to the front; and three hundred feet to the
sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or
electric bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (a)(2) above, the red lamp may serve as the reflector and
a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (a) above, except that red lamps and red reflectors
shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle and white
lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle or
electric bicycle.
   (c)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 373.07  SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, the
person shall yield the right- of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an
audible signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another
bicycle. This audible signal must be given only by bell or other warning device
capable of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and
in such a manner as not to startle the person being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. These intersections are to be crossed by walking
the bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (c)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (d)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. The signals shall conform
with R.C. § 4511.40, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (e)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
   (f)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (g)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway or building, yield the right- of-way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk area. Upon entering the street, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
street.
   (h)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
§ 373.08  RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (a)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (b)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (c)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (d)   Without both hands upon the handle grips. except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
373.02(d);
   (e)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
§ 373.09  PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   (a)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrian traffic or damage the property of another.
   (b)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway in such a manner as to
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (c)   No bicycle shall remain unlocked when parked upon any public way or
place.
§ 373.10  MOTORIZED BICYCLE OPERATION, EQUIPMENT AND LICENSE.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (b) below and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (b)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (c)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued, but in no event shall
any motorized bicycle license be issued for a period longer than four years.
   (d)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (e)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (a)(3)
above shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted by the
Director under division (b) above.
   (f)   Each probationary motorized bicycle license or motorized bicycle
license shall be laminated with a transparent plastic material.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a), (d) or (e) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 373.11  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (b)   Motorcycles shall be operated upon the streets and roadways and shall
not be operated upon sidewalks or in public parks or other public property.
   (c)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk where signs have been
erected by authority of the Chief of Police or Traffic Engineer prohibiting
such bicycle riding.
§ 373.12  IMPOUNDING BICYCLES.
   Whenever any bicycle is operated by any minor under the age of 18 years in
violation of the provisions of this Traffic Code, such bicycle may be seized by
any member of the Police Department and impounded. A bicycle so impounded shall
be surrendered to the owner, and if he or she is a minor, no charge will be
made, but a full explanation of the reason for the impounding shall be made to
the owner, his or her parent or guardian. A complete record of each such
impounding shall be kept in the office of the Chief of Police.
§ 373.13  HELMETS FOR PERSONS OPERATING BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER-SKATES OR
IN-LINE SKATES.
   (a)   No person under the age of 18 shall operate a bicycle, skateboard,
roller-skates or in-line skates (i.e., roller blades) within the city unless
the person is wearing a protective helmet on his or her head, with the chin
strap fastened under the chin. Such helmet shall be fitted to the size of the
operator and shall meet or exceed the standards set by the Snell Memorial
Foundation (“SNELL”). This requirement shall also apply to a person who rides
upon a bicycle while in a restraining seat which is attached to the bicycle or
in a trailer towed by the bicycle. This division shall not be applicable to the
operation of bicycles, skateboards, roller-skates or in-line skates on private
residential property.
   (b)   No parent, guardian or legal custodian of a minor person who engages
in conduct prohibited by division (a) above shall create a substantial risk to
the health or safety of such minor by aiding, abetting, causing, encouraging or
permitting such conduct. Whoever violates this section shall be required to
attend an authorized helmet safety workshop with the offending minor. Whoever
violates this division, on a second offense, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $25. For each and every subsequent violation of this division, a fine
not to exceed $50 shall be imposed.
   (c)   The Court may dismiss all charges pursuant to this section upon
presentation of evidence that a violator hereof has purchased or obtained a
protective helmet, which meets or exceeds the standards set forth herein
subsequent to the violation.
   (d)   Failure to wear a protective helmet as herein described shall not be
considered evidence of either comparative or contributory negligence in any
civil suit arising out of any accident in which a person under 18 years of age
is injured, nor shall the failure to wear a protective helmet be admissible as
evidence in the trial of any civil action.
(Ord. 51-03, passed 4-15-2003)  Penalty, see §
373.99
§ 373.14  ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (a)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (b)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (c)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
   (d)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (c) of this
section and whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (e)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 373.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 375:  SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES
AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
375.01   Definitions
375.02   Equipment
375.03   Code application; prohibited operation
375.04   Permitted operation
375.05   Licensing requirements of operator
375.06   Registration of vehicles
375.07   Accident reports
375.08   Certificate of title
 
375.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Lights, brakes and muffler, see OAC Ch. 4501.29
   Power of trial court of record to impound registration certificate for
certain violations, see Ohio R.C. 4519.47
   Power to regulate; municipal licensing prohibited, see Ohio R.C. 4519.48
   Required usage of helmets and safety glasses, see §
373.02(f)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Street or highway defined, see §
301.01
§ 375.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all- terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The
term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER.  Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC  and  ELECTRONIC RECORD.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER.  A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY.  Any part of the interstate system of highways as
defined in division (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. 103, as amended.
   LIMITED-ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY . Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK.  A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE.  Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01,
that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or
highway.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER.  Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE.  Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow
or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY  and STATE ROUTE.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   STREET  or  HIGHWAY.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 375.02  EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying the
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 mph, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, the requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (b)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment specified
in division (a)(1) and (a)(2) above shall not be required on snowmobiles, off-
highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles operated during the daylight hours.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) above shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender within the
preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (b) above or of
R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (b) above shall be fined not less
than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20)
§ 375.03  CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (a)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting the operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 375.04  PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all- purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (a)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (b)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over the highways so permits;
   (c)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (d)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits the operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (e)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (f)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all- purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 375.05  LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (b)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (a) above, except that the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources may permit the operation on state-controlled
land under its jurisdiction when the person is less than 16 years of age and is
accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed driver 18 years of age or
older.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 375.06  REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b), (c) and (d) below, no person
shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§ 4519.03
and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (b)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off- highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all- purpose vehicle that is
used primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the
current agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any
public land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(b)(2) above and operated for agricultural purposes may use public roads and
rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when such use does
not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (c)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (d)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (e)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapters 1547 and 1548
relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) above shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 375.07  ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   The operator of a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (b)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 375.08  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas;
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off- highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 to 4519.70 for which no
penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections;
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled; or
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200, or
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
§ 375.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty and penalties applicable to misdemeanor
classifications.)
PART 5:  GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
   Chapter
      
501.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTY
      
503.   ADVERTISING
      
505.   ANIMALS
      
507.   CLEAN INDOOR AIR ACT
      
509.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
      
513.   DRUG ABUSE CONTROL
      
517.   GAMBLING
      
521.   HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
      
525.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC OFFICE
      
527.   LITTERING
      
529.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
533.   OBSCENITY AND SEX OFFENSES
      
537.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
541.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
543.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
545.   THEFT AND FRAUD
      
549.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
      
553.   PROHIBITED REALTY PRACTICES
      
557.   FAIR HOUSING
      
558.   HUMAN RIGHTS
CHAPTER 501:  GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTY
Section
501.01   Definitions
501.02   Classification of offenses
501.03   Offenses defined
501.04   Rules of construction
501.05   Criminal law jurisdiction
501.06   Limitation of criminal prosecution
501.07   Requirements for criminal liability
501.08   Culpable mental states
501.09   Attempt
501.10   Complicity
501.11   Organizational criminal liability
501.12   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
501.13   Law Enforcement Trust Fund Account
501.14   Disposition of property held by Police Department
501.15   Mandatory drug fine account
501.16   Possession, sale of contraband or weapons in the jail facility
 
501.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Citation issuance for minor misdemeanors, see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.
   Limitation of prosecution for income tax violations, see Ohio R.C. 718.06
   Penalty considerations, see Ohio R.C. 2929.22
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 501.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY and POLITICAL PARTY . Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRABAND.  Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully determines
to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in an offense.
CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia; and
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DEADLY FORCE.  Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   DETENTION.  Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. §§ 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. §§ 311.29(E) or 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail who
participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
DETENTION  includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY.  Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   FORCE.  Any violence, compulsion or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the Armed Forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C.
§§ 4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms;
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms; and
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, being 14 C.F.R. §§ 119.1
et seq., as amended, and that is required to be under a security program and is
governed by aviation security rules of the Transportation Security
Administration of the United States Department of Transportation as provided in
49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY.  A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34 or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34, of
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)
(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons; and/or
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING.  Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL.  Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PERSON.
      (1)   A.   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association; and
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         B.   As used in any section contained in this general offenses code
that does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         C.   As used in division (1)A.2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE  means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)A. of this definition, in no case shall
the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in division
(1)A.2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section contained in
this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal offense in any of the
following manners.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)A. of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
that section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         B.   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; or
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS.  Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY . Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE.  An immunity, license or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH
COMPUTERS include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, TRADE SECRET has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 1333.61, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and INFORMATION SERVICE  have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of CONTRABAND in
this section, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE, COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER
SOFTWARE, COMPUTER SYSTEM, DATA , and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE  have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes, but is not limited to, legislators, judges and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the non-profit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Any public official;
         B.   Any person performing an ad hoc governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant; and
         C.   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a CANDIDATE  for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the non-profit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   RISK.  A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING  and SCHOOL PREMISES.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY.  Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
state’s Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE.  Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement; or
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY.  Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort or money to repair or replace; or
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK.  A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
   VALUABLE THING  or VALUABLE BENEFIT.  Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2921.01)
§ 501.02  CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this general offenses code:
   (a)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified;
   (b)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor;
   (c)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty; and
   (d)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100; or
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 501.03  OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (a)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this general offenses code.
   (b)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this general
offenses code state a positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and
provide a penalty for violation of the prohibition or failure to meet that
duty.
   (c)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 501.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c) or (d) below, sections of
this general offenses code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (b)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this general offenses code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (c)   Any provision of a section of this general offenses code that refers
to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of
this general offenses code, the Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of
this general offenses code or the Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also
refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially
equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this municipality, state,
another state or the United States or under an existing or former municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to
an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance
that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 501.05  CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality; or
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (b)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (a)(1) above includes
the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes death, the death
itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense in question. If
any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this municipality, the
death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (c)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The Courts of Common Pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those Courts of Common Pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent Court of Common Pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (d)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (e)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (f)   Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (g)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (h)   For purposes of division (a)(2) above, an overt act is substantial
when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of the actor
that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (i)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING  have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
§ 501.06  LIMITATION ON CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2), (a)(3) or (a)(4) below or
as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred unless it
is commenced within the following periods after an offense is committed:
         A.   For a felony, six years;
         B.   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years; and
         C.   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. §§ 2903.01 or 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) to (j) below, a
prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless it is
commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         A.   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12 or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. §§ 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12; or
         B.   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (a)(3)A. above.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (d) to (l) below, a
prosecution of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit or complicity in committing a violation of either
section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25 years after the
offense is committed.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) below, if the
period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3) above has expired,
prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an element is fraud or
breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of the offense either
by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is
not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3)
above has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49 shall be
commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by an
aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (c)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)
(3) above has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the following
offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant, at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A
PUBLIC SERVANT.  The phrase includes, but is not limited to, a violation of
R.C. §§ 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A),
2921.43(A) or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense
involving misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code
sections listed in this division (c)(2)A.
         B.   PUBLIC SERVANT  has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (d)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD  has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (e)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until the course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (f)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (g)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (h)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (i)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (j)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Part 6 or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority; or
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected or believed to have
occurred.
   (k)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER  has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2935.01.
   (l)   The amendments to divisions (a) and (d) above apply to a violation of
R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a
violation of either of those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if
prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section as it existed
on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
§ 501.07  REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, a person is not guilty of an
offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing; and
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (b)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) above does not apply to offenses defined in R.C.
Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) above does not relieve the prosecution of the
burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CULPABILITY.  Purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      (2)   INTOXICATION.  Includes, but is not limited to, intoxication
resulting from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      (3)   INVOLUNTARY ACTS.  Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are INVOLUNTARY ACTS .
      (4)   POSSESSION.  A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 501.08  CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (b)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (d)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (e)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for that element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for that element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for that
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 501.09  ATTEMPT.
   (a)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (c)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder or an offense for which
the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first degree,
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a drug abuse
offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number of unit
doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is an
offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if that
drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number of
unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range of
controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
§ 501.10  COMPLICITY.
   (a)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01; or
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (c)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
§ 501.11  ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances.
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (b)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (d)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated non-profit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity. ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 501.12  PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by the organization, if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in that
conduct, or tolerates that conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility; or
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and the duty is not discharged.
   (b)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 501.13  LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND ACCOUNT.
   (a)   Any property received by the city’s Police Department pursuant to the
seizure of any property, other than property that is subject to Ohio R.C.
3719.41, or property that has been lawfully seized in relation to a violation
of Ohio R.C. 2923.32, that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, or seized pursuant
to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited, and that is in
the custody of the Police Department, shall be kept safely pending the time it
no longer is needed as evidence, and then such property shall be disposed in
accordance with the forfeiture and seizure provisions in the codified
ordinances, provided that any acceptance of real estate by the city shall be
approved by ordinance of Council.
   (b)   There is hereby established the city’s Law Enforcement Trust Fund, as
a special revenue fund. All money and the proceeds of sale of other property
forfeited to the city, or pursuant to federal law and required to be used for
law enforcement purposes, except as may be required by law to be disposed of in
another manner as Council shall appropriate shall be credited to the Law
Enforcement Trust Fund.
   (c)   If property forfeited to the city is sold pursuant to this section,
the proceeds of the sale shall be disposed of in the following order:
      (1)   To the payment of the costs named in the forfeiture proceedings;
      (2)   To the payment of the balance due on any security interest
preserved pursuant to state law;
      (3)   To the payment of any costs named by the Department of Police in
connection with the storage maintenance, security and forfeiture of the
property; and
      (4)   To the Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
   (d)   The Chief of Police shall be required to make and file with the
Finance Director, with a copy to Council, monthly reports of the financial
expenditures. The Chief of Police shall further include in the report the
purposes for which moneys in the Law Enforcement Trust Account were used. These
reports shall be presented to the Finance Director and Council no later than
the last calendar Friday prior to the beginning of the next successive month.
(Ord. 47-90, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 501.14  DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Any property that has been lawfully seized in relation to a violation
or forfeited pursuant to federal law and required to be used for law
enforcement purposes, that has been lost, abandoned, stolen or lawfully seized
or forfeited and that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be
safely kept pending the time it is no longer needed as evidence and disposed of
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   The Police Department shall make a reasonable effort to locate the
person entitled to possession of property in its custody, and to notify the
claimant when and where it may be recovered. In the absence of evidence
identifying persons entitled to custody, it is sufficient notice to advertise
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, briefly describing the
nature of the property in custody and inviting persons to view and establish
their right to possession of the property.
   (c)   A person loses any right he or she may have to possession of property
if either of the following apply:
      (1)   The property was the subject of or was used in a conspiracy or an
attempt to commit, or the commission of an offense other than a traffic
offense, and such person is a conspirator, accomplice or offender with respect
to the offense; or
      (2)   A court of law has determined that the property should be forfeited
because, in light of the nature of the property and of the circumstances, it is
unlawful for him or her to acquire or possess the property.
   (d)   Unclaimed and forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department other than property that has been lawfully seized in relation to a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2933.32 shall be disposed of as follows.
      (1)   Drugs shall be destroyed or placed in custody of the Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States for disposal or use for medical or scientific
purposes under applicable federal law.
      (2)   Firearms and dangerous ordnances so seized and remaining unclaimed
shall be destroyed after 90 days from date of notice given pursuant to division
(b) above. Property records shall be kept listing type, serial number and date
of destruction. These records shall be open to public inspection.
      (3)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
      (4)   Other unclaimed or forfeited property shall be sold at public
auction subject to the provisions of division (a) above and to be held no less
than 30 days from the date of the newspaper notice provided for in division (b)
above, except that forfeited property, excluding money but including motor
vehicles notwithstanding division (f) below, may be retained by the Police
Department, if the Chief of Police determines that it is suitable for use in
the work of the city’s Police Department.
   (e)   The proceeds from property disposed pursuant to this section shall be
placed in the Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
   (f)   This section does not apply to the collection, storage or disposal of
abandoned junk motor vehicles. Refer to Chapter 307 in the Traffic Code.
(Ord. 62-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 501.15  MANDATORY DRUG FINE ACCOUNT.
   (a)   Authority to establish accounts. The city’s Police Department is
hereby authorized to establish and accurately maintain a specially designated
bank account called the Mandatory Drug Fine Account for the collection and
deposit of any and all proceeds from mandatory drug penalty fines as imposed by
any municipal, county or federal courts from any investigation involving drug
or drug-related cases. All fines placed in this account shall be used in
furtherance of the investigation and prosecution of crimes involving drugs or
drug related activity in the city.
   (b)   Categories of accounts.
      (1)   At the discretion of the Chief of Police, separately identified
accounts may be created as follows: “Mandatory Drug Fine Account - City Cases”;
“Mandatory Drug Fine Account - County Cases”; and “Mandatory Drug Fine Account
- Federal Cases”.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall designate the person or persons who shall
deposit money into any of the above described accounts and that person or other
persons shall maintain an accurate record of each deposit and/or expenditure
relating to the account(s).
   (c)   Expenditure of funds from the Mandatory Drug Fine Account. Proceeds
from the Mandatory Drug Fine Account shall be expended in furtherance of the
investigation and prosecution of crimes involving drugs or drug-related
activity in the city for any one of the following general expenditure
categories:
      (1)   For the investigation and prosecution costs of complex drug and
drug-related cases;
      (2)   For costs in training police personnel and in providing technical
expertise to police staff and personnel;
      (3)   For application towards federal matching funds and grants;
      (4)   For special equipment used in drug related investigations; and
      (5)   For any other law enforcement purpose as determined by the city’s
Police Department with the approval of the city’s Safety Director, but in no
event shall moneys deposited in any of the Mandatory Drug Fine Accounts be used
to meet operating costs that are not related to law enforcement.
   (d)   Record of expenditures.
      (1)   A record of all expenditures shall be kept and recorded with
appropriate receipts documenting each transaction. The record of expenditures
from the mandatory drug fine account shall include:
         A.   The date of expenditure of the proceeds from the account; and
         B.   The specific amount of expenditure listed under the appropriate
general expenditure category.
      (2)   A.   These records shall be available and open to public inspection
during normal business hours in the Police Department.
         B.   In the event of an ongoing investigation, the Police Department
and its personnel shall not be required to list specific expenditures of money
in the record of expenditures, since such specifics may jeopardize the
integrity of the investigation and thwart the pursuit of justice. However, at
the conclusion of the case, or as soon as practical, complete disclosure of
same shall be placed in the public record.
   (e)   Annual report; requirements. A cumulative record of the receipt and
expenditure of moneys from the Mandatory Drug Fine Account as recorded for each
calendar year shall be forwarded to the Office of the Ohio Attorney General no
later than March 1 of the next ensuing year.
   (f)   Application. This section shall be used in connection with §
501.14. Disposition of property held by the Department of Police and with Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2933, as well as other provisions in the city’s codified
ordinances such as, but not limited to, §
501.13 Law Enforcement Trust Fund Account.
(Ord. 63-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 501.16  POSSESSION, SALE OF CONTRABAND OR WEAPONS IN THE JAIL FACILITY.
   No person shall possess, sell, offer for sale or furnish to any person being
held in the custody of the city’s Police Department, any matches, lighters,
tobacco in any form, pens, pencils, tools, weapons, objects made or fashioned
into weapons, narcotic drugs, alcohol, hallucinogens or any other items not
issued by the city’s jail staff. This section does not apply to items such as
mail or correspondence.
(Ord. 117-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 501.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense of a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalties provided in division (a) hereof, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
501.11 shall be fined not more than $5,000.
   (c)   (1)   Any person who fails to respond to or comply with any subpoena
or process issued by City Council or any authorized committee of Council
properly served upon him or her shall be held in contempt of Council or such
committee and, upon a finding by Council, shall be committed to imprisonment in
the city jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or, in the event that
the contempt lies in a refusal to testify or produce documents, papers, until
the contempt is purged.
      (2)   Council after it has ordered the imprisonment, shall have the power
to order the release of any person either at such time as it is satisfied that
the contempt has been purged or for good cause shown.
      (3)   It shall be prima-facie evidence that a subpoena or process has
been properly served if the same shows a return thereon evidencing personal
service upon the person or persons named therein by the person serving the
same.
   (d)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to committing, attempting to
commit or complicity in committing a violation of §§
541.02 or
541.03(a)(2) when the means used are fire or explosion, shall be required to
reimburse agencies for their investigation or prosecution costs in accordance
with Ohio R.C. 2929.28.
   (e)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of the
codified ordinances for which a misdemeanor classification is imposed shall be
imprisoned for a definite term or fined, or both, which term of imprisonment
and fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in this section.
 
Classification of Misdemeanor Maximum Term of Imprisonment Maximum Fine
First Degree                  6 months                     $1,000
 
(R.C. § 2929.21)  (Ord. 6540, passed 12-26-1973; Ord. 6679, passed 1-7-1975)
CHAPTER 503:  ADVERTISING
Section
503.01   Posting bills without consent of owner
503.02   Defacing or destroying notifications
503.03   Fraudulent advertising
503.04   Ringing doorbells for handbills
503.05   Falsely described merchandise
503.06   Signs in public areas
 
503.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Advertising in parks prohibited, see
Ch. 931
   Distributing handbills, see §§
527.09 et seq.
§ 503.01  POSTING BILLS WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER.
   (a)   No person shall paint, print, paste, stencil or otherwise mark, place
upon or affix to a building, fence, wall, vehicle, post, pole, tree, billboard,
sidewalk or street or other similar structure, whether public or private,
without the consent of the owner, lessee or agent in charge, a word, letter,
character, figure, sentence or device or a handbill, notice, advertisement,
sign or poster.
   (b)   This section does not apply to the posting of a handbill or notice of
public sale by a sheriff, administrator, executor or licensed auctioneer, or a
notice required by law to be posted.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.02  DEFACING OR DESTROYING NOTIFICATIONS.
   No person shall intentionally deface, obliterate, tear down or destroy, in
whole or in part, a copy or transcript of a law of the United States or of this
state, or a proclamation, publication, advertisement or notification set up in
a public place by authority of law for the public information of any citizen.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.03  FRAUDULENT ADVERTISING.
   (a)   No person shall directly or indirectly make, publish, disseminate,
circulate or place before the public, in a newspaper, magazine or other
publication, or in the form of a book, notice, handbill, poster, circular,
pamphlet, letter, sign, placard, card, label or over any radio station, or in
any other way an advertisement or announcement of any sort regarding
merchandise, service, employment, real estate or anything of value offered by
him or her for use, purchase or sale, and which advertisement or announcement
contains any assertion, representation or statement which is untrue or
fraudulent.
   (b)   No person shall, in any manner, or by any means of advertisement or
other means of communication, offer for sale any merchandise, commodity or
service, as part of a plan or scheme with the intent, design or purpose not to
sell the merchandise, commodity or service so advertised at the price stated
therein, or with the intent, design or purpose not to sell the merchandise,
commodity or service so advertised. Nothing in this section shall apply to any
visual or sound radio broadcasting station, to a telephone company offering
announcement service according to tariffs filed with the state’s Public
Utilities Commission, or to any publisher or printer of a newspaper, magazine
or other form of printed advertising, who broadcasts, publishes or prints such
advertisement in good faith without knowledge of its false, deceptive or
misleading character.
(Ord. 6551, passed 1-22-1974)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.04  RINGING DOORBELLS FOR HANDBILLS.
   No person distributing handbills, circulars or other advertisements shall
ring any doorbell, sound any door knocker or otherwise call the resident of any
residence to the door to receive such handbills, circulars or other
advertisements.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.05  FALSELY DESCRIBED MERCHANDISE.
   No person, with intent to defraud by sale thereof, shall place on any
merchandise any label or tag which falsely describes the kind, number,
quantity, weight, grade or quality of such merchandise. No person shall sell or
offer for sale any merchandise upon which, to his or her knowledge, a label or
tag has been placed, which labor or tag falsely describes the kind, number,
quantity, weight, grade or quality of such merchandise.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.06  SIGNS IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   No person, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Mayor, shall
erect or maintain any sign of any type or description, or any obstruction in,
on or over any street or other public area within the city.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
503.99
§ 503.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 505:  ANIMALS
Section
505.01   Dogs and other animals running at large
505.02   Maximum number of dogs and other animals permitted
505.03   Barking, biting, howling and other offensive behavior
505.04   Impounding dogs
505.05   Disposition of unclaimed or infected dogs
505.06   Waiver provision and fee for reclaiming dog
505.07   Killing, injuring or poisoning animals
505.08   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
505.09   Registration of pit bull dogs
505.10   Dangerous or vicious animals
505.11   Report of escape of exotic or dangerous animal
505.12   Assault upon police dogs prohibited
505.13   Animal bites or suspected rabies; confinement procedure
505.14   Communicable diseases of animals; report
505.15   Keeping swine or goats prohibited
505.16   Certain animals prohibited
505.17   Keeping animals or birds for sale
 
505.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dog registration, see Ohio R.C. 955.01
   Owner or keeper liable for damages, see Ohio R.C. 951.10
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 505.01  DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner of or having charge of horses, mules,
cattle, sheep, geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens or other fowl or animals, shall
permit them to run at large anywhere within the city except upon the owner’s
property.
   (b)   No person, being the owner of or having charge of any dog, whether
licensed or unlicensed, shall permit it to run at large anywhere within the
city except upon the owner’s property.
   (c)   AT LARGE means off the premises of the owner, and not under control by
leash, cord or chain.
   (d)   No person shall take, lead or have in his or her possession any animal
in any public park located within the city.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969; Ord. 6849, passed 4-20-1976)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.02  MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   (a)   No more than two dogs (excepting puppies not over three months old)
may be kept in any single-family dwelling, or in any separate suite in a two-
family dwelling or apartment within the city.
   (b)   No person shall keep any lion, tiger or other such wild animal on any
premises in the city.
(Ord. 6849, passed 4-20-1976)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.03  BARKING, BITING, HOWLING OR OTHER OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   (a)   No owner, keeper or person in charge of any animal in the city shall
allow any dog to disturb the peace and quiet of any person by barking, yelping,
biting or howling. The Animal Warden or other designated employee may take up
and impound any animal who is found disturbing the peace and quiet of any city
residence in this manner.
   (b)   No owner, keeper or person in charge of any animal shall fail to pick
up and properly dispose of any fecal matter left by his or her animal on any
public or private property.
(Ord. 6849, passed 4-20-1976)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.04  IMPOUNDING DOGS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, Animal Warden or
official or employee charged with the enforcement of this general offenses code
to apprehend any dog found running at large. If the apprehended dog bears a
valid registration tag, it shall then be the duty of the Police Department,
Animal Warden or official or employee charged with the enforcement of this
general offenses code to impound the dog at the owner’s expense in the city
pound or any other suitable place designated by the Mayor. The official or
employee shall, upon the apprehending of any dog, record a brief description of
the dog, and such other information as may seem necessary, including whether or
not the dog is identified with a valid registration tag.
   (b)   In addition to any other penalty provided herein, if the court
determines that any animal is a vicious animal, in that on one or more
occasions such animal has bitten or attacked any person without provocation, or
if the court determines that the owner of the animal has habitually permitted
such animal to run at large or violated this chapter on one or more occasions
so as to constitute a nuisance, the court may order that such animal be removed
from the city or destroyed.
(Ord. 6849, passed 4-20-1976)
§ 505.05  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR INFECTED DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Warden or Police Department, without
delay, to destroy or otherwise dispose of all dogs not bearing a valid
registration tag. Dogs bearing a valid registration tag, other than infected
dogs, may be impounded by the Animal Warden or Police Department for a period
of not more than three days, including the day impounded and the day released.
Any dog so impounded, not claimed by the owner or his or her representative
during the time impounded by the city, may be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of at the discretion of the Animal Warden or Chief of Police or the official or
employee charged with the enforcement of this general offenses code. Any dog,
registered or unregistered, which appears to be infected with rabies or other
dangerous disease, need not be impounded, but may be destroyed forthwith.
§ 505.06  WAIVER PROVISION AND FEE FOR RECLAIMING DOG.
   (a)   The owner of any dog impounded for running at large may reclaim such
dog upon the execution and filing with the Clerk of the Municipal Court an
instrument waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit and warrant, together
with the reading of such affidavit and warrant, and the right to be present
personally at the trial of such action, and further waiving the right of appeal
and error and authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered, submitting the
defendant to the mercy of the Court, and upon depositing, during the period the
dog is impounded under the provisions of this chapter, $25 for the first
offense, plus $3 for each day or any part of a day for keeping or boarding of
any dog, or upon depositing, during the period the dog is impounded under the
provisions of this chapter, $50 for the second offense within any 12-month
period, plus $3 for each day or any part of a day for the keeping or boarding
of the dog.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
505.99, any person who violates any provision of §§
505.01 or
505.03 may execute and file with the Clerk of the city’s Municipal Court an
instrument waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit or complaint and
warrant, together with the reading of such affidavit or complaint and the right
to be present personally at the trial of such action, and further waiving the
right of appeal in error, and authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered and
the defendant submitted to the mercy of the Court.
   (c)   Upon depositing with such Clerk the sum of $25 within the seven days
of the date of the citation for a first offense or upon depositing the sum of
$50 within seven days of the date of the citation for a second or subsequent
offense within a 12-month period, such person may be fined the aforesaid
amounts by the Court. After seven days from the date of the citation or where
an affidavit or complaint and warrant have been issued charging a person with
violating any provision of §§
505.01 or
505.03, such person shall be subject to the general code penalty contained in §
505.99.
(Ord. 7101, passed 12-20-1977)
§ 505.07  KILLING, INJURING OR POISONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more, whoever
violates division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (c)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in that
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.08  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (b)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (a) above does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (c)   All fines collected for violations of division (a) above shall be paid
to the Society or Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, if
there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the
General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (d)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         B.   CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1531.01.
         C.   COMPANION ANIMAL.  Any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. COMPANION ANIMAL does not include livestock
or any wild animal.
         D.   CRUELTY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         E.   DOG KENNEL.  An animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel or a training kennel.
         F.   FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT.  The Laboratory Animal Act of 1966,
being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., Pub. Law No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7
U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended by the Animal Welfare Act of 1970, being 7
U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., Pub. Law No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970), the Animal
Welfare Act Amendments of 1976, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., Pub. Law No.
94-279, 90 Stat. 417 (1976), and the Food Security Act of 1985, being 16 U.S.C.
§§ 3865 et seq., Pub. Law No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354 (1985), and as it may be
subsequently amended.
         G.   LIVESTOCK.  Horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         H.   PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4741.01.
         I.   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING.  A structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         J.   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM.  Any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain; and/or
            4.   Physical harm that results from a person who confines or who
is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal depriving the companion
animal of good, wholesome food and water that proximately causes the death of
the companion animal.
         K.   TORMENT . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         L.   TORTURE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         M.   TRAINING KENNEL . An establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in return
for a fee or other consideration.
         N.   WILD ANIMAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against
a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         A.   Torture, torment or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement; or
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         A.   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
or
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected that
the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable pain
or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement; or
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   Divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5) and (d)(6) above do not
apply to any of the following:
         A.   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         B.   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         C.   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         D.   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals; or
         E.   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (d) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
agents under R.C. § 1717.06 or to provide additional training for humane
agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition, including, but not
limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (d)(2) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d)(3) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (d)(4) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree
on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d)(5) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (d)(6) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (6)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (d) above to forfeit to an impounding agency,
as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion animals in that
person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or place limitations on
the person’s ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified
or indefinite period of time.
         B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (d) above to reimburse an impounding agency for the
reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care of a companion
animal that the agency impounded as a result of the investigation or
prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not otherwise paid
under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (d) above suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))  Penalty, see §
505.99
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 505.09  REGISTRATION OF PIT BULL DOGS.
   (a)   Any person having the custody, ownership or control of any American
pit bull dog, pit bull terrier or Staffordshire terrier dog must register such
dog with the city on a form to be provided by the city. Such form shall require
the following information: name, address and telephone number of the dog’s
owner; the address where such dog is harbored; sex; color; state, county or
city rabies certificate if required; and county tag number; and other
distinguishing physical characteristics of the dog, as well as proof of public
liability insurance of not less than $50,000 for such registration.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failing to register an
American pit bull dog or Staffordshire terrier.
   (c)   The police officers and dog wardens of the city shall impound any
American pit bull dog, pit bull terrier dog or Staffordshire terrier which is
not registered pursuant to division (a) hereof.
   (d)   The fee for registration of such dogs shall be $15.
(Ord. 7883, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 505.10  DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly keep, maintain or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the city any dangerous or
carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous domesticated
animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious or dangerous
propensities, except to the extent that an exemption may be applicable pursuant
to divisions (d) or (e) hereof. As used in this section, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
ANIMAL  means and includes the following:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation; or
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting.
   (b)   The prohibitions of division (a) hereof shall not be applicable to the
owners or keepers of domesticated dogs or cats; provided, however, that the
owners or keepers of a domesticated dog or cat which by its characteristics
meets the definitions of a dangerous or vicious animal set forth in divisions
(a)(1) through (a)(3) hereof shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   No such person shall suffer or permit such animal to go unconfined
on the land or building of such person.
      (2)   No such person shall permit such animal to run on the property of
the owner other than in the back yard of the property, in residential
districts.
      (3)   Such person in residential districts shall maintain fencing in the
back yard which is not less than six feet in height; which shall be constructed
from stockade or solid screening material; which shall fully confine the animal
and prevent the animal from reaching over, under or through the fence with its
jaws, teeth or claws; and which fencing shall be set back a minimum of four
feet from any adjacent property lines.
      (4)   No such person shall suffer or permit such animal to go beyond the
land or building of such person unless such animal is securely restrained and
muzzled.
      (5)   Such person in residential districts shall possess at a minimum a
$100,000 liability insurance policy.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, there shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that, when kept or maintained within the city, the animals listed
below are considered dangerous animals to which the prohibition of division (a)
hereof, in the absence of an exemption pursuant to divisions (d) or (e) hereof,
applies:
      (1)   All crotalid, elapid and venomous colubroid snakes;
      (2)   Apes: gibbons (Hylobates); gorillas (Gorilla); orangutans (Pongo);
and stamangs (Symphalangy);
      (3)   Baboons (Papoi, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (Corcodilia) when 24 inches in length or more;
      (8)   Constrictor snakes exceeding six feet in length;
      (9)   Coyotes (Cams latrans);
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae), includes all members of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (11)   Elephants (Elepas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Foxes (Canis vulpes);
      (13)   Gamecocks and other fighting birds;
      (14)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (15)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (16)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (17)   Leopards (Panthera parous);
      (18)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (19)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (20)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (21)   Piranha fish (Characidae), except those considered vegetarians;
      (22)   Pumas (Felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain lions and
panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (24)   Sharks (Class Chondrichthyes);
      (25)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (26)   Swine (Suidae);
      (27)   Tigers (Panthera tigris);
      (28)   Wolves or wolf hybrid canines (Cards lupus);
      (29)   Scorpions;
      (30)   Birds of prey, except for those held by licensed falconers;
      (31)   Venomous fish;
      (32)   Poisonous spiders, except for tarantulas;
      (33)   Stinging insects (except honey bees);
      (34)   Bats; and
      (35)   Reptiles.
   (d)   Licensed menageries, zoological gardens, and circuses shall be exempt
from the provisions of division (a) hereof if all of the following conditions
are applicable:
      (1)   The location conforms to the provisions of the city’s Zoning Code;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape; and
      (4)   No person resides within 50 feet of the quarters in which the
animals are kept.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Director of Safety may grant
a specific exemption, on a temporary or permanent basis, from any of the
provisions of this section to any person with a legitimate scientific,
educational, commercial or other purpose for maintaining the prohibited
animals, in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Written application for exemption shall be filed by any person
desiring to obtain an exemption with the Director of Safety. The application
shall state the applicant’s name, address, type and number of animals desired
to be kept, general purpose for which the animals will be kept, and a general
description of provisions which will be made for safe, sanitary and secure
maintenance of the animals.
      (2)   The Director of Safety may grant, deny or restrict the terms of an
application for exemption; provided, however, that he or she shall take some
official action on an application within 120 days of its filing.
      (3)   In considering the merits of an application for exemption, the
Director of Safety may cause one or more inspections of the applicant’s
premises to be made by appropriate city employees or representatives, and may
also refer the application to persons who are technically knowledgeable with
respect to the animals involved for an advisory opinion.
      (4)   In evaluating an application for exemption, the Director of Safety
shall give consideration to the following criteria:
         A.   The experience and knowledge of the applicant relative to the
animals involved;
         B.   Whether the applicant has obtained a federal or state permit
relative to the animals involved;
         C.   The relative danger, safety and health risks to the general
public, to persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises, and to
the applicant in connection with the animals involved;
         D.   The provisions which have been or will be made for the safe,
sanitary and secure maintenance of the animals for the protection of the
general public, persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises, and
the applicant;
         E.   The provisions which have been made or will be made to protect
the safety and health of the animals involved; and
         F.   Any other logically relevant information.
      (5)   An application for exemption under this division (e) shall be
denied unless the Director of Public Safety determines that, in view of all the
relevant criteria and any restrictions which he or she may provide, reasonably
appropriate measures commensurate with the degree of risk associated with the
animals involved have been or will be taken to assure at least a minimum
acceptable level of protection from danger to the health and safety of the
general public, persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises, and
the applicant.
      (6)   An exemption granted pursuant to this division (e) may be withdrawn
by action of the Director of Public Safety in the event that the Director
determines that there has been a change in the conditions or assumption under
which it was originally granted or in the event that the applicant fails to
comply with restrictions originally placed on the exemption.
   (f)   No exemption granted pursuant to any provision of this section shall
be construed, nor is it intended by the city as a guaranty or warranty of any
kind, whether express or implied, to any person, including without limitation
the general public, persons residing or passing near the applicants’ premises,
or the applicant, either in general or individually, as to the danger or lack
thereof, or degree of risk or health or safety of any animal, specifically or
generally, or any premises where any animal is maintained or kept pursuant to
such exemption.
   (g)   The police officers and/or dog wardens of the city shall impound any
dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous
domesticated animal or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious or
dangerous propensities as described herein and kept and maintained in violation
of this section.
   (h)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day that such violation continues
shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   In addition to any penalty provided in this chapter, any Judge of
the Municipal Court or the Common Pleas Court may order that any dangerous or
vicious animal, or wild or exotic animal which attacks a person or domestic
animal, be destroyed if the Court finds that such dangerous or vicious animal,
or wild or exotic animal represents a continuing threat of serious harm to
persons or domestic animals. In addition, any person found guilty of violating
any provision of this chapter shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food,
boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dangerous
or vicious animal or wild or exotic animal for the protection of the public,
and for such other expenses as may be required for the destruction of such
animal.
(Ord. 47-98, passed 6-30-1998)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.11  REPORT OF ESCAPE OF EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (a)   The owner or keeper of any member of a species of the animal kingdom
that escapes from his or her custody or control and that is not indigenous to
this state or presents a risk of serious physical harm to persons or property,
or both, shall, within one hour after he or she discovers or reasonably should
have discovered the escape, report it to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer of the municipality and the sheriff of
the county where the escape occurred; and
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Legislative Authority.
   (b)   If the office of the Clerk of the Legislative Authority is closed to
the public at the time a report is required by division (a) hereof, then it is
sufficient compliance with division (a) hereof if the owner or keeper makes the
report within one hour after the office is next open to the public.
(R.C. § 2927.21)
§ 505.12  ASSAULT UPON POLICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
any dog which is owned, harbored or under the control of the city’s Department
of Police.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to any dog
which is owned, harbored or under the control of the city’s Department of
Police.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an
official capacity.
(Ord. 9-91, passed 1-29-1991)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.13  ANIMAL BITES OR SUSPECTED RABIES; CONFINEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Whenever a quarantine of dogs or other animals has been duly declared
by the Health Commissioner, in addition to the requirements of such section,
the owner of any animal which has bitten any person, or which the owner has
reason to believe has rabies, or has been bitten or otherwise infected by an
animal suspected of having rabies, shall immediately confine his or her animal
in a veterinary hospital for a period of not less than ten days at his or her
sole expense. Such owner shall also immediately notify the Health Commissioner
of the pertinent facts of the case.
   (b)   Whenever a quarantine of dogs or other animals is not in effect in the
city, the owner of any animal which has bitten a person or which the owner has
reason to believe has rabies, or has been bitten or otherwise infected by an
animal suspected of having rabies, shall immediately confine his or her animal
in a veterinary hospital or within doors on his or her premises under the
observation of a veterinarian for a period of not less than ten days at his or
her sole expense. Such owner shall also immediately notify the Health
Commissioner of the pertinent facts of the case.
(Ord. 5465, passed 5-9-1963)
§ 505.14  COMMUNICABLE DISEASES OF ANIMALS; REPORT.
   (a)   The following communicable diseases of animals shall be reported to
the Health Commissioner immediately upon the recognition of such disease by the
owner, attending veterinarian or person having the diseased animal in his or
her possession or control: actinomycosis; anthrax; glanders; rabies
(hydrophobia); Texas fever and tuberculosis.
   (b)   No person shall bring into the city, sell or offer for sale any animal
having a communicable disease or which has been exposed to or which is liable
to carry infection from a communicable disease.
   (c)   Every veterinarian or other person attending a case of communicable
disease in any animal shall, within 12 hours after the recognition of such
disease, report the same to the County Department of Health, giving the name of
the owner and his or her place of residence.
   (d)   Any person having knowledge of the existence of a case of communicable
disease of any animal which has not been reported shall, within 12 hours after
the discovery of the existence of such communicable disease, report the same to
the County Department of Health.
   (e)   The Department of Health, upon obtaining information as to the
existence of a communicable disease of any animal, shall, under the direction
of the Health Commissioner, supervise the destruction, removal or isolation of
the animal having such disease. All costs resulting from such isolation shall
be paid by the owner.
Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.15  KEEPING SWINE OR GOATS PROHIBITED.
   No swine or goats shall be kept upon any premises within the city.
(Ord. 3732, passed 4-7-1942)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.16  CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No rabbit hutch, goat pen, chicken coop, runway, yard or other place for the
keeping of any rabbit, goat, chicken, pigeon, goose, turkey, horse, mule,
donkey, sheep, bovine, swine or other such animal or fowl of any kind shall be
maintained within the city. No horse, mule, donkey, bovine, goat, sheep or
swine shall be raised or kept in the city.
(Ord. 6849, passed 4-20-1976)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.17  KEEPING ANIMALS OR BIRDS FOR SALE.
   No building or portion thereof shall be used for a place to keep for sale
any dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents or birds, except those intended for food,
unless such building shall be at least 25 feet from a place of human habitation
or from a place where food is prepared, placed, kept or sold. Such place shall
be maintained in a clean condition, free from any accumulation of filth,
garbage, rubbish or other waste, and shall not, because of odors, noises or
other causes, constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 3732, passed 4-7-1942)  Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.99  PENALTY.
   The penalty for a violation of any provision of
Chapter 505 shall be the same as provided in §
501.99, except that whoever violates a provision for which a waiver is
permitted pursuant to §
505.06 shall be fined not less than the waiver deposit or fine authorized and
established in §
505.06.
(Ord. 6937, passed 12-7-1976)
CHAPTER 507:  CLEAN INDOOR AIR ACT
Section
507.01   Definitions
507.02   Lighted smoking material prohibited
507.03   Posting of signs
507.04   Designated smoking areas
507.05   Areas in which smoking prohibited
507.06   Areas in which smoking permitted
507.07   Conditions for designated smoking areas
507.08   Smoking policies
507.09   Voluntary designation of no-smoking areas
507.10   Posting of signs
 
507.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sale of cigarettes to minors, see §
537.16
§ 507.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR.  Any establishment licensed by the state’s Department of Liquor Control
to sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the
service of food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverage.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT.  Any restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette,
tavern, cocktail lounge, sandwich stand, soda fountain and any other
establishment (excluding bars) where cooked or otherwise prepared food is sold
to members of the general public for consumption on the premises.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person who is employed by any employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit or as a volunteer.
   EMPLOYER.  Any person who employs the services of an individual person or
any person in charge of a place of employment.
   ENCLOSED INDOOR AREA.  Closed in by a roof and walls on at least three sides
with appropriate openings for ingress and egress.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any physical facility operated by a commercial enterprise,
non-profit entity, government agency or any other person.
   GROCERY STORE.  Any supermarket, convenience store and any other retail food
production and marketing establishment.
   HEALTH-CARE FACILITY.  Any laboratories associated with the rendition of
health-care treatment, hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes, doctors’ offices,
dentists’ offices an other establishments involved in the provision of health
care.
   MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC.  Shoppers, customers, patrons, patients,
students, clients and other similar invitees of any establishment and exclude
employees thereof, sales representatives, service repair persons, and persons
delivering goods, merchandise or services to such establishment.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or legal entity of any kind.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.  The portion of any enclosed, indoor area under the
control of a public or private employer which employees normally frequent
during the course of employment but to which members of the general public are
not normally invited, including, but not limited to, such areas in office work
places, factories, warehouses and laboratories. The dining area of an eating
establishment is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.
   POLLING PLACE.  The entire room, hall, garage or other facility in which
persons cast ballots in an election, but only during such time as election
business is being conducted.
   PROPRIETOR.  The owner, manager, operator or other person in charge of a
public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  The portion of any enclosed, indoor area to which members of
the general public are invited or in which members of the general public are
permitted.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE.  A retail store used primarily for the sale of smoking
materials and smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products is
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department of a
larger retail store such as a department store or discount store.
   SERVICE LINE.  Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   SIGN.  Legible, English letters on a contrasting background to clearly
indicate where smoking is permitted or not permitted and to provide related
information. SIGNS shall be of sufficient size to be legible and observable
throughout the area they govern. The international “NO SMOKING” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) be used in, or substituted for, a sign
indicating that smoking is prohibited.
   SMOKING MATERIAL.  Any cigar, cigarette, pipe, weed, plant or other smoking
equipment in any form.
   WORK AREA.  Any room, desk, station or other area normally occupied by an
employee while carrying out his or her primary work functions.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.02  LIGHTED SMOKING MATERIAL PROHIBITED.
   The possession of lighted smoking material in all public places owned,
leased or otherwise controlled by the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)  Penalty, see §
507.99
§ 507.03  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The Service Director shall erect or post signs, indicating that smoking is
prohibited, at all entranceways to all public places and at any other necessary
locations throughout the public places, as is necessary.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.04  DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS.
   The appropriate departmental authority is hereby authorized to designate
areas in those enclosed buildings owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
city where smoking is permitted.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.05  AREAS IN WHICH SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smoke in the following designated areas within the city and
no person who owns or has control of the following designated areas shall
permit smoking therein:
   (a)   Enclosed theaters, including lobbies;
   (b)   Auditoriums, classrooms, libraries, schools, museums, opera houses;
   (c)   All vehicles used for public transportation;
   (d)   Elevators;
   (e)   Areas within gasoline service stations, as defined by Ohio R.C.
3741.141;
   (f)   Office waiting rooms;
   (g)   Supermarkets, grocery store, including convenience style stores;
   (h)   Retail stores, financial and financial service institutions;
   (i)   All other places prohibited by the Ohio Revised Code; and
   (j)   Arcades, video and other game rooms.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)  Penalty, see §
507.99
§ 507.06  AREAS IN WHICH SMOKING PERMITTED.
   (a)   Unenclosed areas;
   (b)   Bowling alleys and pool rooms;
   (c)   Businesses licensed by the state’s Department of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises;
   (d)   Private residences;
   (e)   Bingo halls; and
   (f)   Private clubs, party centers and banquet rooms.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.07  CONDITIONS FOR DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS.
   (a)   The owner, manager or operator of any of the places described in
division (b) hereof may set aside designated areas where smoking is permitted,
provided that the smoke is contained within those designated areas so as not to
adversely affect nonsmoking areas within the same enclosed area. Smoke shall be
contained in the smoking areas by the use of walls, separation, air
segregation, partitions, filtration and/or ventilating systems, and in the
absence of such controls, smoking shall not be permitted.
   (b)   The specified facilities in which separate smoking areas may be
designated include:
      (1)   Hotels and motels;
      (2)   Restaurants and other eating establishments;
      (3)   Health care facilities, rest homes and hospitals; and
      (4)   Business establishments, offices and factories not previously
enumerated, subject to such additional regulations as provided herein governing
work place smoking.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.08  SMOKING POLICIES.
   Each employer, owner, operator or manager of a business shall, within 90
days of the adoption of this section (Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993), adopt,
implement and maintain a written smoking policy which shall, at a minimum,
comply with the following.
   (a)   Any smoking employee may object, in writing, to his or her employer
about smoke in the workplace.
   (b)   The employer shall, by use of walls, separation, partition or
ventilating equipment, create a smoke-free area such as will protect any such
nonsmoking employee who objects, in writing, and in the absence of such
effective controls, the employer shall entirely prohibit smoking in the
workplace.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.09  VOLUNTARY DESIGNATION OF NO-SMOKING AREAS.
   The owner, manager or operator of any place where smoking may be otherwise
permitted may voluntarily provide and designate all or any part of such area as
a no-smoking area.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.10  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   “Smoking Permitted” and “No Smoking” signs shall be conspicuously posted in
every room, building or other place where smoking is controlled by this
chapter, by the owner, manager or other person having control of such room,
building or place. Any area designated in §
507.06, in which there is not provided a nonsmoking area, shall have posted
therein a sign stating this fact in a conspicuous place at its entrance.
(Ord. 112-93, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 507.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 509:  DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
Section
509.01   Riot
509.02   Failure to disperse
509.03   Disorderly conduct; intoxication
509.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting
509.05   Misconduct at an emergency
509.06   Inducing panic
509.07   Making false alarms
509.08   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
509.09   Reserved
509.10   Assault and battery in schools; disruption
509.11   Intoxication
509.12   Loitering
509.13   Reserved
509.14   Prowling; definitions
509.15   Playing of loud radios, and other sound devices prohibited
 
509.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cordoning off riot areas, prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives, see
Ohio R.C. 3761.16
   Criminal trespass, see §
541.05
   Emergency suspension of permits and sales by Director of Liquor Control, see
Ohio R.C. 4301.251
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Use of force to suppress riot, see Ohio R.C. 2917.05
§ 509.01  RIOT.
   (a)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government; or
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (b)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (d)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)  Penalty, see §
509.99
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 509.02  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (b)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) below, failure to
disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (a) above creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 509.03  DISORDERLY CONDUCT; INTOXICATION.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right- of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender; or
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (b)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he or she
were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have that effect on others; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(b) above.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (b) above.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist;
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone;
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind; or
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (b) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  The singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (4)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  The singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.04  DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession or gathering; or
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.05  MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility; or
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (2)   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  The singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  The singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.06  INDUCING PANIC.
   (a)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence; or
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) above does not apply to any person conducting an
authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (a)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these codified ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BIOLOGICAL AGENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      (2)   ECONOMIC HARM.  Any of the following:
         A.   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. ECONOMIC HARM as described in
this division includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and/or
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         B.   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as a
result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted
the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, including, but not limited to, all costs so
incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel or
emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL.  Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2133.21.
      (4)   INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Any of the following:
         A.   A state university or college, as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch or technical
college;
         B.   A private, non-profit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the state’s Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713; and
         C.   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the state’s Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      (5)   SCHOOL.  Any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the state’s Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under
R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      (6)   WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION.  Any of the following:
         A.   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         B.   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         C.   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life; and/or
         D.   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one- quarter ounce, mine or similar
device; or
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(e)(6)D.1. above and from which an item or device described in that division
may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.07  MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property; or
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these codified ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section, ECONOMIC HARM  and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION
have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.08  MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (a)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (b)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (c)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (d)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (e)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct involving a
public transportation system.
      (1)   Violation of division (a), (b) or (e) above is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (2)   Violation of division (c) above is a minor misdemeanor on a first
offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of any division of this section or of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any division of this section, violation of division
(c) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Violation of division (d) above is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of this section shall be deposited
into the treasury of the city and 25% shall be deposited with the county
transit board, regional transit authority, or regional transit commission that
operates the public transportation system involved in the violation, unless the
board of county commissioners operates the public transportation system in
which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into the treasury of the city.
   (h)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM  means a county
transit system operated in accordance with §§ 306.01 to 306.13 of the Ohio
Revised Code, a regional transit authority operated in accordance with §§
306.30 to 306.71 of the Ohio Revised Code, or a regional transit commission
operated in accordance with §§ 306.80 to 306.90 of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2917.41)  (Ord. 38-10, passed 9-8-2010)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.09  RESERVED.
§ 509.10  ASSAULT AND BATTERY IN SCHOOLS; DISRUPTION.
   No person shall unlawfully assault, strike, threaten or menace a teacher,
instructor, professor, person in charge of a class of students, or any employee
of any school, college or university, while in the performance of their duties,
or disrupt, disturb or interfere with the teaching of any class of students, or
disrupt, disturb or interfere with any activity conducted in a school, college
or university building, or upon the campus or grounds thereof, or in any public
place, or improperly and unlawfully assault, strike, threaten, menace, follow,
pursue or lay hands upon a student or other person in a school, college or
university building, or upon the campus or grounds thereof, or in any public
place, or improperly and unlawfully assault, strike, threaten, menace, follow,
pursue or lay hands upon a student or other person in a school, college or
university building, or upon the grounds or campus thereof, or upon the way to
or from any school, college or university, campus thereof, or upon the way to
or from any school, college or university sponsored activity.
(Ord. 6707, passed 3-18-1975)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.11  INTOXICATION.
   (Editor’s note: Legislative restrictions on intoxication are now codified in
§
509.03.)
§ 509.12  LOITERING.
   No persons shall congregate or loiter upon or about any public street,
avenue, alley, street setback, park, playground, public school property, public
library property or any other publicly owned property, or in front of a
dwelling, place of business, place of worship or amusement in the city at any
time and in such a manner as to hinder, obstruct or impede passage of
pedestrians, or in such a manner as to hinder, obstruct or impede normal
ingress to or egress from adjacent premises.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.13  RESERVED.
§ 509.14  PROWLING; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, PROWLING means:
      (1)   Engaging in any conduct in a stealthy or furtive manner; or
      (2)   Wandering or strolling about from place to place without apparent
lawful purpose or aim.
   (b)   No person shall prowl in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual
for law-abiding individuals under circumstances which would cause an ordinary,
reasonable person to have an immediate concern for the safety of persons or the
security of property in the vicinity and, upon request by a police officer,
refuse to identify himself or herself and state the reason for his or her
presence.
   (c)   No person who is prowling in the manner described in division (b)
hereof shall refuse to leave the vicinity after being requested to do so by a
police officer where, although such person has identified himself or herself
and stated the reason for his or her presence as required in division (b)
hereof, an ordinary, reasonable person would continue to have an immediate
concern for the safety of persons or the security of property in the vicinity
of such person were allowed to continue prowling in such vicinity.
Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.15  PLAYING OF LOUD RADIOS AND OTHER SOUND DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument,
or any other type of sound service upon any public road, street, highway or
private property in this municipality in a manner or at a volume as to disturb
the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. An exception is made for
organized events which have received a valid permit from the city as set forth
in §
311.02 and any other applicable section.
   (b)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player, television, audio system or musical instrument, or
any other type of sound device in manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or at a volume which is
plainly audible to persons other then those who are in the room in which such
device or instrument is played and who are voluntary listeners thereto.
   (c)   In addition to the penalty as set forth in §
509.99, the following additional penalty applies.
 
First offense                A mandatory fine of $100
Second offense               A mandatory fine of $200
Third offense and thereafter A mandatory fine of $300 and three days in jail
 
   (d)   Upon conviction for a violation of this section, the sound device used
during the commission of the offense shall be subject to seizure and payment of
a judgment.
(Ord. 53-91, passed 6-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
509.99
§ 509.99  PENALTY.
   The penalty for a violation of any provision of Chapter 509 shall be the
same as provided in the general penalty in §
501.99, except that whoever violates any provision of §
509.10 shall be fined not less than $100 and shall be sentenced to imprisonment
for not less than three days for each such violation.
(Ord. 6707, passed 3-18-1975)
CHAPTER 513:  DRUG ABUSE CONTROL
Section
513.01   Definitions
513.02   Distribution of marihuana
513.03   Drug abuse; controlled substance possession or use
513.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments
513.05   Permitting drug abuse
513.06   Deception to obtain dangerous drugs
513.07   Possessing or using harmful intoxicants
513.08   Illegally dispensing drug samples
513.09   Controlled substance or prescription labels
513.10   Hypodermic possession, display and dispensing
513.11   Harmful intoxicants; possessing nitrous oxide in motor vehicle
513.12   Drug paraphernalia
513.13   Counterfeit controlled drug substances
513.14   Criminal solicitation of a controlled substance
513.15   Loitering or remaining in a public place for the purpose of engaging
in drug-related activity
513.16   Occupying a drug premises
513.17   Sale of pure caffeine product
 
513.99   Penalty; mandatory fines
Cross-reference:
   Adulterating food with drug of abuse, see §
537.13
   Analysis report and notarized statement as evidence, see Ohio R.C. 2925.51
   Criteria for granting probation, see Ohio R.C. 3719.70(B)
   Federal prosecution bar to local prosecution, see Ohio R.C. 2925.50, 3719.19
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Using weapons while under the influence, see §
549.04
§ 513.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE.  To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         B.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         C.   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid amide,
or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         D.   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         E.   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         F.   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws,
as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic substance; or
         G.   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control
laws.
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid; or
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.  A duly constituted and organized committee
of the state’s Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, § 6 of the Rules for
the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer or
derivative, or the base form of cocaine;
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer or derivative of ecgonine, or a salt
of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine; or
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE.  An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL.  An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed or distributed by a person
other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed or distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance, other than a controlled substance, that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE.  Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL.  The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the state’s Supreme Court under
the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. §§ 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36 or 2925.37;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of any municipality, state
or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to any section listed
in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of any municipality,
state or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating, harvesting,
processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping, transporting,
delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing, dispensing, selling,
inducing another to use, administering to another, using or otherwise dealing
with a controlled substance is an element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2) or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha- methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl- 2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy- 2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N-phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4- piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1- (2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1- [2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4- fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1- (1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]- N-phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         A.   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         B.   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         C.   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         D.   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT . Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation or substance the gas, fumes or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation or other harmful physiological effects, and includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
         A.   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent;
         B.   Any aerosol propellant;
         C.   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant; or
         D.   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone; and
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.  The resin or a preparation of the resin contained in marihuana,
whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract or liquid
distillate form.
   HYPODERMIC . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE.  A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS.  Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D.  Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE.  To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE.  Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE.  Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION.  Having control over a thing or substance, but may
not be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through
ownership or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is
found.
   PRESCRIPTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM  or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED.  A presumption, as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D), that a prison term
is a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE.  Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)(1)
to (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered sanitarian under R.C. Chapter
4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B or class C license
or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard employee under
R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed and registered to practice as a nursing home
administrator under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764; and
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the state’s
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES.  Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort.
   SALE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG.  A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous
to health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V . Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL.  Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
state’s Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING.  Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES.  Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a criminal offense
is committed; or
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or the governing body of a nonpublic school
for which the state’s Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under
R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular activities
or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by the school is being
conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL . The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the state’s Board
of Pharmacy.
   UNIT DOSE.  An amount or unit or a compound, mixture or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 513.02  DISTRIBUTION OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly give or offer to make a gift of 20 grams or
less of marihuana.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gifting in marihuana.
Gifting in marihuana is a minor misdemeanor for the first offense. For any
subsequent offense, or if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or the vicinity of a juvenile, gifting in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(Ord. 07-08, passed 3-5-2008)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.03  DRUG ABUSE; CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE POSSESSION OR USE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct was in accordance with Chapters 3719, 4715, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741
of the Revised Code;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration;
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, 52 Stat. 1040 (1938), 21 U.S.C.A. § 301, as amended, and is sold,
offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or administered for that purpose in
accordance with that act; or
      (4)   Any person who obtained a controlled substance product pursuant to
a prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of drug abuse, and shall be
sentenced as follows.
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule III, IV or V, whoever violates
division (a) above is guilty of possession of drugs. The penalty for the
offense shall be determined as follows. Except as otherwise provided in
division (c)(2)B. hereof, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. In lieu of sentencing the offender to a term of imprisonment in a
detention facility, the court may place the offender under a community control
sanction, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2929.01, that requires the offender to
perform supervised community service work pursuant to division (B) of Ohio R.C.
2951.02.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of possession of marihuana. The
penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   If the amount of drug involved is less than 100 grams, possession
of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor; or
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds one hundred
grams but is less than two hundred grams, possession of marihuana is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(Ord. 08-08, passed 3-3-2008)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.04  POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess or use any instrument,
article or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for the
administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (b)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (d)(2) above, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.05  PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (a)   No person, who is the owner, operator or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C.
4501.01(A), shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of
a felony drug abuse offense.
   (b)   No person, who is the owner, lessee or occupant, or who has custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit the premises, or real estate, including vacant land, to
be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another person.
   (c)   No person, being the owner, lessee, occupant or having custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit such premises to be used for the commission of a drug
offense under any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or 3719,
after the receipt of written notice from a law enforcement officer that a drug
offense under any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or 3719
has previously occurred on the premises or real estate. In multiple unit
dwellings, including hotels or motels, the notice provided for in this
subsection shall be in writing and shall state the names of the parties and the
specific unit involved.
   (d)   Premises or real estate, including vacant land, used in violation of
divisions (b) or (c) above and where a felony violation of this section and
where a felony violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or 3719 occurs constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse, a
misdemeanor if the offender has not previously been convicted of a drug abuse
offense.
   (f)   Vehicles used in violation of division (a) hereof shall be seized and
forfeited to the municipality, upon motion to the common pleas court.
Forfeiture shall not apply to common carriers or innocent owners, nor shall
they affect the rights of a holder of a valid lien.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of recklessly permitting
drug abuse, a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 28-89, passed 7-18-1989)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.06  DECEPTION TO OBTAIN DANGEROUS DRUGS.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 513.06 which was derived from Ohio R.C. 2925.22 is
no longer included in the codified ordinances. By House Bill 615, effective
March 27, 1991, the Ohio General Assembly classified all violations of Ohio
R.C. 2925.22 as felonies. Therefore each charge of deception to obtain a
dangerous drug should now be filed under Ohio R.C. 2925.22).
§ 513.07  POSSESSING OR USING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (a)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (c)(2) above, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.08  ILLEGALLY DISPENSING DRUG SAMPLES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (b)   Division (a) above does not apply to manufacturers, wholesalers,
pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C.
Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         B.   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))  Penalty, see §
513.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 513.09  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (a)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing facility, as the case
may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled substance
is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address of the
vendor and the quantity, kind and form of controlled substance contained
therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing a
controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, REPACKAGER  and OUTSOURCING
FACILITY  have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or § 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If
the violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I
or Schedule II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if
the offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C.
§ 3719.99(D) applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.10  HYPODERMIC POSSESSION, DISPLAY AND DISPENSING.
   (a)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent or employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   Terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic was lawfully obtained and is kept and
used for the purpose of self administration of insulin or other drug prescribed
for the treatment of disease by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal; and
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (b)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (a)
above shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to prevent any
hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by any
unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3719.99(D))  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.11  HARMFUL INTOXICANTS; POSSESSING NITROUS OXIDE IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET  AND HIGHWAY  have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   Unless authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4729, 4731, 4741
or 4765, no person shall possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either
of the following circumstances:
      (1)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on a
street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking; or
      (2)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing nitrous oxide in
a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 2925.33)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.12  DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2925. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA  includes, but is not limited to, any of the
following equipment, products or materials that are used by the offender,
intended by the offender for use or designated by the offender for use, in any
of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing or preparing a controlled substance;
      (3)   Any object, instrument or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing methamphetamine or any salt,
isomer or sale of an isomer of methamphetamine;
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of, a controlled substance;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance;
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance;
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana;
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance;
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance;
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance;
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body; or
      (13)   An object, instrument or device for ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured
metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or carburetion
mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material, such as a
marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe; carburetor pipe;
electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or chiller.
   (b)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner, or by anyone in control, of the
equipment, product or material, concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925;
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product or material to any
controlled substance;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product or material;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, to deliver it to any
person whom the owner or person in control of the equipment, product or
material knows intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of any
provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925. A finding that the owner,
or anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, is not guilty of a
violation of any other provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925,
does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product or material was intended
or designed by the offender for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product or material concerning its use;
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product or
material and explaining or depicting its use;
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product or material;
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product or
material is displayed for sale;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product or material to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product or material in the community; and
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product or
material.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use,
drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if the person knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if the person knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in the state of the equipment,
product or material that the offender intended or designed for use as drug
paraphernalia.
   (d)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4729, 4731 and 4741. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by §
513.10.
   (e)   Any drug paraphernalia that was used, possessed, sold or manufactured
in violation of this section shall be seized and forfeited to the city.
(Ord. 32-90, passed 3-20-1990; Ord. 69-90, passed 8-21-1990)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.13  COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED DRUG SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above shall be guilty of possession of
counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))  Penalty, see §
513.99
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking, other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 513.14  CRIMINAL SOLICITATION OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (a)   No person, with intent to purchase or otherwise obtain or possess a
controlled substance, shall knowingly induce, solicit, entice or procure
another person who is 18 years of age or older, whether or not the offender
knows the age of such other person, to exchange the controlled substance for
property, services, money or any other item, thing or benefit of value.
   (b)   No person, with intent to purchase or otherwise obtain or possess a
controlled substance shall knowingly induce, solicit, entice or procure another
person who is a juvenile, whether or not the offender knows the age of such
juvenile, to do either of the following:
      (1)   Exchange the controlled substance for property, services, money or
any other item, thing or benefit of value; or
      (2)   Act or otherwise serve as an intermediary, or otherwise aid or
assist in the purchasing or otherwise obtaining the controlled substance for
the offender.
   (c)   This section does not apply to any person who purchases or otherwise
obtains a controlled substance pursuant to a prescription issued by a
practitioner. This section also does not apply to manufacturers, practitioners,
pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose conduct is in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4729, 4731 and 4741.
Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.15  LOITERING OR REMAINING IN A PUBLIC PLACE FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING
IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall loiter or remain in or near any public
thoroughfare or place open to the public, and engage in conduct which
reasonably manifests his or her specific intent and purpose to engage in drug-
related activity contrary to any of the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or
Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances of the city.
   (b)   Circumstances. The circumstances which shall be considered in
determining whether such intent or purpose has been manifested, and three or
more of which must be found under circumstances in which the activity of the
person reasonably manifests his or her specific intent and purpose to engage in
drug-related activity contrary to any of the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter
2925 or Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances of the city are:
      (1)   The person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller. For
purposes of this section, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER is a
person who, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, has been convicted
in any court in the state of any violation involving the use, possession or
sale of any controlled substance as defined in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925, or the
person has been convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code or substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of the
state of Ohio, or of any other state;
      (2)   The person displays the physical characteristics of drug
intoxication;
      (3)   The person is currently subject to a court order prohibiting his or
her presence in a high drug activity geographic area and the arresting officer
knows that fact;
      (4)   The person is physically identified by an officer as a member of a
gang or association which has as its purpose illegal drug activity;
      (5)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by or
bystanders money and/or objects, the characteristics of which are consistent
with drug material the possession, sale and distribution of which is proscribed
or limited by Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances
of the city, whether the passers-by or bystanders are on foot or in motor
vehicles;
      (6)   The person takes flight or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself
or herself upon the appearance of the police;
      (7)   The person manifestly endeavors to conceal any object, the
characteristics of which are consistent with drug material the possession,
sale, and distribution of which is proscribed or limited by Ohio R.C. Chapter
2925 or Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances of the city, and reasonably
appears to have been involved in unlawful drug-related activity;
      (8)   The person to the observation of officers possesses any instrument,
article or thing, the customary or primary use of which is the sale,
administration or use of controlled substances, including, but not limited to,
crack pipes, push wires, chore boys, hand scales or hypodermic needles, and
which is uniquely designed, constituted or modified for use with controlled
substances;
      (9)   The area involved is by public repute and to the knowledge of the
arresting officer an area in which unlawful drug use and trafficking occurs on
a frequent and regular basis. Probable cause shall not be established, and an
arrest pursuant to this section shall not be justified solely on the basis that
the person is present in a reputed drug use or trafficking area absent the
existence of other circumstances which justify the arrest; and
      (10)   The premises involved are known to the person to have been
reported to law enforcement authorities as a place of drug activity under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2925 or Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances of the city, and
the existence of that knowledge is known by the arresting officer.
   (c)   Background of person or neighborhood. The race or ethnic background of
a person and/or the racial or ethnic makeup of the area or neighborhood within
which he is she is located shall not be considered in determining a person’s
specific intent under this section.
   (d)   Explanation opportunity. No person shall be arrested under this
section until he or she has been afforded the opportunity by the law
enforcement officers to explain his or her activity, and to indicate to
officers why his or her activity should not be construed to manifest specific
purpose and intent of illegal drug activity. This opportunity shall be
exercised by the person at his or her option, and nothing in this subsection
shall be interpreted as so to require the person to make any statement to
officers. The failure of a person to avail himself or herself of the
opportunity to explain his or her specific activity shall not be construed or
utilized as a factor in the determination of his or her specific intent and
purpose to engage in illegal drug activity.
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates the provisions of this section is guilty of
engaging in prohibited drug-related activity, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 88-95, passed 10-3-1995; Ord. 52-03, passed 4-15-2003)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.16  OCCUPYING A DRUG PREMISES.
   (a)   No person shall occupy, loiter or remain in any building, apartment,
store, automobile, boat, boathouse, airplane or other place of any description
whatsoever where controlled substances, hypodermic syringes, needles or other
instruments or implements are sold, dispensed, furnished, given away, stored or
kept illegally, with the intent to unlawfully use or possess such substance,
implements or instruments.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of occupying a drug premises,
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 53-03, passed 4-15-2003)  Penalty, see §
513.99
§ 513.17  SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         A.   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         B.   Any energy product.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (c)   Division (b) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (d)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (c) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         A.   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         B.   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         C.   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         D.   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         E.   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (d)(2)A. to (d)(2)D. of
this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 513.99  PENALTY; MANDATORY FINES.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 517:  GAMBLING
Section
517.01   Definitions
517.02   Gambling
517.03   Operating a gambling house
517.04   Public gaming
517.05   Cheating
517.06   Methods of conducting a bingo game; prohibitions
517.07   Instant bingo conduct
517.08   Raffles
517.09   Charitable instant bingo organizations
517.10   Location of instant bingo
517.11   Bingo or game of chance records
517.12   Bingo operator prohibitions
517.13   Bingo exceptions
517.14   Instant bingo conduct by a veteran’s or fraternal organization
517.15   Skill-based amusement machines
 
517.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing charitable bingo games, see Ohio R.C. 2915.08
   Lotteries prohibited; exception, see Ohio Const., Art. XV, Sec. 6
   Search warrants, see Ohio R.C. 2933.21(E)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 517.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET.  The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO.  Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         A.   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         B.   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         C.   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets; and
         D.   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)C. of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre- announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, punch boards and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR.  Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo, including, but not limited to, collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling and serving food or beverages.
   BINGO SESSION.  A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo and seal cards; and
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and seal cards for not
more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the period
described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES.  Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; and devices for selecting or displaying the combination of
bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets. Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are
not gambling devices if sold or otherwise provided, and used, in accordance
with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For purposes of this chapter, BINGO
SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING.  The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.  Any organization of individuals, professionals and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME.  Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION.  An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3),
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), and is a charitable organization as defined in
this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION  does not include a
charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), being 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a
fraternal organization or a sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted
or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting
organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATION means either of the following:
         A.   An organization that is and has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in effect, stating
that the organization is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501
(a), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(a), and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), being 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3); or
         B.   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)(4)
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(7) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8)
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(10), or 501(c)
(19) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION , an organization shall
have been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two
years immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo
license under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as
provided in R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE.  The net profit of bingo, other than instant bingo, is
used by, or is given, donated or otherwise transferred to, any of the
following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or
(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or those individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of the post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for non-profit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or state flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups or other bona fide non-profit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for that use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170, being 26 U.S.C. § 170;
or
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT.  To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL OF INSTANT BINGO TICKETS.  A single game of instant bingo tickets all
with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR.  Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who
does either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state; or
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         A.   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller;
         B.   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant to
the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device; and
         C.   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   EXPENSES.  The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all
of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted; and
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(B)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION . Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes; and
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2915.02, 2915.03, 2915.04, 2915.05, 2915.06,
2915.07, 2915.08, 2915.081, 2915.082, 2915.09, 2915.091, 2915.092, 2915.10 or
2915.11;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition or a violation of R.C. §
2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element; and
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard that accompanies each deal of instant bingo
tickets and that has printed on or affixed to it the following information for
the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning instant bingo
tickets by denomination and the respective winning symbol or number
combinations for the winning instant bingo tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play; and
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE.  Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT.  Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES.  The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct
of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this
section, plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described
in division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  All money or assets, including admission fees, that a
person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid
out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include
any money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply.
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD.  All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for-profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO.  A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. In all INSTANT BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be
predetermined. The term does not include any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token or an equivalent, and that contains as one
of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER . A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency;
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions;
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise;
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations;
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels;
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator;
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses; and
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER.  Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE.  Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, bingo or instant
bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO.  Gross profit
minus the ordinary, necessary and reasonable expense expended for the purchase
of instant bingo supplies, and, in the case of instant bingo conducted by a
veteran’s, fraternal or sporting organization, minus the payment by that
organization of real property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on
which instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT.  Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT.  A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD.  A board containing a number of holes or receptacles of uniform
size in which are placed, mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of
paper that may be punched or drawn from the hole or receptacle when used in
conjunction with instant bingo. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips
of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the
game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the PUNCH BOARD
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE.  A form of bingo in which one or more prizes are won by one or more
persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER . Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION.  Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE.  To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine or a pool not conducted for profit. SCHEME OF CHANCE includes
the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry if
valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win a
prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a prize
in the following instances:
         A.   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of chance
operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by participants at
any one location;
         B.   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         C.   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         D.   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         E.   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         F.   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         G.   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         H.   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than 20%
of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         I.   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain any
good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic device.
      (2)   As used in this division, ELECTRONIC DEVICE means a mechanical,
video, digital or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors.
   SEAL CARD.  A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL.  Any person who either is a Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff,
Marshal, Deputy Marshal, township constable or member of an organized police
department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a peace
officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is hired
to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   A.   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that rewards
the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         B.   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill- based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         A.   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by the
number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         B.   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         C.   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         D.   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         E.   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined by
game features not visible or known to the player; and/or
         F.   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition.
         A.   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
“game” and “play” mean one event from the initial activation of the machine
until the results of play are determined without payment of additional
consideration. An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game,
play, contest, competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes based on the results of play.
         B.   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-contest,
competition or tournament play.
         C.   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a SKILL- BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         A.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain; or
         B.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   SLOT MACHINE  does not include a skill-based amusement machine or
an instant bingo ticket dispenser.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION . A hunting, fishing or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including, but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND.  To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder
of a license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES.  Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. SWEEPSTAKES does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the state’s Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a sweepstakes,
or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors, that is
intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that is capable of
displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device is a
SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE  if any of the following apply.
         A.   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         B.   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         C.   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         D.   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         E.   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         F.   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         G.   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         H.   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
517.02:
         A.   ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any
prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         B.   ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         C.   PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward,
or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY.  Any location in this state where a
sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except as
provided in § 630.02(g) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION.  Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a non- profit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this division,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION.  Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION.  Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION.  Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of
an athletic team, club, league or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION.  Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         A.   The playing fields are used at least 100 days per year for
athletic activities by one or more organizations, not organized for profit,
each of which is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 18 years of
age or younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to
the support of an athletic team, club, league or association; and
         B.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity at
any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 517.02  GAMBLING.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission or exchange of information for use in
establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or with
any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F); or
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
(a)(5), or (a)(6) above, acquire, possess, control or operate any gambling
device.
   (b)   For purposes of division (a)(1) above, a person facilitates bookmaking
if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking operation,
including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged in or
facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (a)(2) above, a
person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme of chance
if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation of any such
game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such game or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply.
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92; or
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (e)   Division (d) above shall not be construed to authorize the sale, lease
or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct games of
chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization that is
granted that right.
   (f)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (g)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         A.   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         B.   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         C.   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         D.   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         E.   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         F.   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (f) above or the semiannual report
required by division (g) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.03  OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of operating a gambling
house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.04  PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (a) above.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) above do not prohibit conduct in connection with
gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (b) above
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.05  CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance; or
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of cheating.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is $1,000 or more or if
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense or of any
theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of corrupting sports.
Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.06  METHODS OF CONDUCTING A BINGO GAME; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(3) below, use all of
the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement of expenses
for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for reimbursement of expenses
for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used in conducting bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for hiring security personnel, for reimbursement of
expenses for advertising bingo, or for reimbursement of other expenses or for
other expenses listed in the definition for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01,
provided that the amount of the receipts so spent is not more than is customary
and reasonable for a similar purchase, lease, hiring, advertising or expense.
If the building in which bingo is conducted is owned by the charitable
organization conducting bingo and the bingo conducted includes a form of bingo
described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the
charitable organization may deduct from the total amount of the gross receipts
from each session a sum equal to the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross
receipts from the bingo described in that division as consideration for the use
of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo, other than instant bingo, for a charitable purpose listed
in its license application and described in the definition for “charitable
purpose” in R.C. § 2915.01, or distribute all of the net profit from the
proceeds of the sale of instant bingo as stated in its license application and
in accordance with R.C. § 2915.101.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
the purpose of conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not
a charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted; or
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this  division (c)(4), conduct more
than two bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer firefighter’s
organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that conducts not more
than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more than three bingo
sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney General when it
will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(F). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081.
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) below, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) below, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly, regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at the site of instant bingo other than at a
bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (d) prohibits an employee of a fraternal
organization, veteran’s organization or sporting organization from selling
instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or invited guests,
as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any receipts
of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding division (b)(1) above, a charitable organization that,
prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of
premises it owns to another charitable organization or other charitable
organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that more than two bingo
sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises, and a person that is
not a charitable organization and that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered
into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns to charitable
organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions per calendar
week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those charitable
organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are conducted per
calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has notified the Attorney
General in writing of the organizations that will conduct the sessions and the
days of the week and the times of the day on which the sessions will be
conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each organization that will
conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General prior to December 6,
1977, and that each organization that will conduct the sessions was issued a
license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General prior to December 6,
1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) above is guilty of illegally
conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates division (a)
(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) above is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)
(11), or (d) above, a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)
(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Whoever violates division (c)(12) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (c)(12) above, a violation of division (c)(12) above is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)  (Ord. 21-19, passed 4-2-2019) Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.07  INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), being
26 U.S.C. § 501(a), is described in IRC § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. § 2915.01, is in good
standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in compliance with
R.C. Chapter 1716; or
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), being 26
U.S.C. § 501(a), is described in IRC 501(c)(7) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(7), (c)
(8) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(8), (c)(10) being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(10), or (c)
(19)  being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(19), or is a veteran’s organization described in
IRC 501(c)(4), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Division (a)(12)A. above does not prohibit a licensed charitable
organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an instant bingo
ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant in an instant
bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be sold or
provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer
on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) above or a rule adopted under division
(c) above is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a) above or of such a rule adopted under division (c) above,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 517.08  RAFFLES.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) below, a charitable organization, a
public school, a chartered nonpublic school, a community school, or a veteran’s
organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described in IRC § 501
(c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19) may conduct a raffle to
raise money for the organization or school and does not need a license to
conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a charitable organization that is described in division (a)(1)
above, but that is not also described in IRC 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle, the
charitable organization shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from
the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state or any political
subdivision.
   (b)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (c)   Except as provided in divisions (a) or (b) above, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of illegal conduct of a
raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal conduct of a
raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (c) above, illegal conduct of a
raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 517.09  CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, the charitable instant bingo organization
shall enter into a written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at
which the instant bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in
the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each
location where the instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being
conducted, and identify the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session is not required to enter into a written contract
with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted, provided that the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of
the instant bingo other than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct
of the instant bingo other than at a bingo session at that location is not more
than five days per calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (f) below, no charitable instant bingo
organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session at a
location where the primary source of retail income from all commercial activity
at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (b) above shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets. As used in this division, FULL GROSS
PROFIT means the amount by which the total receipts of all instant bingo
tickets, if the deal has been sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be
paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES  means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (b) above with an owner or lessor of
a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (b) above with a new owner or lessor of a
location; and
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Division (c) above does not apply to a volunteer firefighter’s
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other than at a bingo
session on the premises where the organization conducts firefighter training,
that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at least five years prior to
July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five years, had gross receipts of
at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (g)   (1)   A veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting
organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to R.C. Chapter
2915 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if all of the
following apply.
         A.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00 a.m. and ends not
later than 2:00 a.m.
         B.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests.
         C.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (g)(2) below.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division (g)(1)
above is raising money for another organization that is described in IRC § 509
(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c),
and that is in good standing in this state, the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization shall execute a written
contract with the organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or
(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its
principal place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income
taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good
standing in this state in order to conduct instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal or sporting organization will be distributing to the charitable
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in
this state.
      (3)   A.   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division
(g)(1) above has been issued a liquor permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that
permit may be subject to suspension, revocation or cancellation if the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization
violates a provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
         B.   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (g)(2)
above shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or
permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization or sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of illegal instant
bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant
bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of this division (g), illegal instant bingo
conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.10  LOCATION OF INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) above shall violate any provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) above shall violate the terms of the contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) above is guilty of illegal
instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of divisions (c) or (d) above,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally or
recklessly violates divisions (c) or (d) above, any license that the owner or
lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or lessor’s
premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is subject to
suspension, revocation or payment of a monetary penalty at the request of the
Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)  Penalty, see §
517.99
§ 517.11  BINGO OR GAME OF CHANCE RECORDS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address and Social Security number of all
persons who are winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), 2915.02(D) or 2915.101, a list of each
purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (a) above at its principal place of business
in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify the
Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member or employee of the organization;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games of
chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted;
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper
court to enforce this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law
enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General when
commencing an action as described in this division.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede or interfere with any inspection, audit or
observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game of
chance is conducted, or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to division (h)
above.
   (j)   Whoever violates divisions (a) or (i) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 517.12  BINGO OPERATOR PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 517.13  BINGO EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Sections 630.06 to 630.13 do not apply to bingo games that are
conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the
purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified
in either division (a)(1) or (a)(2) below.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(a)(1) or (a)(2) above. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by action in
the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement agency
gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 517.14  INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT BY A VETERAN’S OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   A veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting
organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.01 to 2915.12 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than ten a.m. and ends not later
than 2:00 a.m.
      (2)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or a sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests.
      (3)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in §§ 509
(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or 509(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under § 501
(a) and described in § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and that is in
good standing in this state and executes a written contract with that
organization as required in division (b) below.
   (b)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division (a) above
is raising money for another organization that is described in §§ 509(a)(1),
509(a)(2), or 509(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under § 501
(a) and described in § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and that is in
good standing in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization shall execute a written contract with
the organization that is described in §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or 509(a)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under § 501(a) and described in § 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, and that is in good standing in this state in order to
conduct instant bingo. That contract shall include a statement of the
percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s, fraternal or sporting
organization will be distributing to the organization that is described in §§
509(a)(1), 509(a)(2) or 509(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under § 501
(a) and described in § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and that is in
good standing in this state.
   (c)   (1)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or a
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division
(a) above has been issued a liquor permit under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303, that
permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or cancellation if the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or a sporting organization
violates a provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (2)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or a sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (b) above
shall violate any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or
permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or a sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or a sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo
conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division (e), illegal instant
bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of this section, illegal instant bingo
conduct is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 517.15  SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (a)   No person shall give to another person any item described in §
517.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy or novelty received as a reward for
playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or reduced-
price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of skill-based amusement
machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (a) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree for each redemption of a prize that is involved in the
violation. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a) above, a violation of that division is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (c)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 517.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 521:  HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
521.01   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
521.02   Reserved
521.03   Putrid substances
521.04   Obstructing watercourses
521.05   Water sprinkling ban
521.06   Fences
521.07   Noxious or offensive odors
521.08   Venting of heaters and burners
 
521.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Excavation liability, see Ohio R.C. 723.49 et seq.
   Flagpole installation in sidewalk, see Ohio R.C. 723.012
   Nuisances, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3767
   Removal of noxious weeds or litter, see Ohio R.C. 731.51 et seq.
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Tampering with safety devices, see §
541.04
§ 521.01  ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch or other fastening device capable of securing the door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing the hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
§ 521.02  RESERVED.
§ 521.03  PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   No person, being the owner or occupant of any property, whether improved or
unimproved, occupied or vacant, shall permit the accumulation of debris,
stagnant water or putrid substances on such property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
521.99
§ 521.04  OBSTRUCTING WATERCOURSES.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or occupant of any property, whether
improved or unimproved, occupied or vacant, shall obstruct any public sewer,
culvert or watercourse upon such property or adjacent thereto.
   (b)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure any natural watercourse.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
521.99
§ 521.05  WATER SPRINKLING BAN.
   The Mayor is authorized to order the temporary discontinuance of sprinkling
of lawns and gardens during water shortages in the city water system, during
such hours as the Mayor may determine, whether such water shortage is caused by
drought or otherwise.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 521.06  FENCES.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence without the
permission of the Mayor.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
521.99
§ 521.07  NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (c)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water or unlawfully divert the
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (d)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture- related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (a) and (b) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 521.08  VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater, using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases, must comply with
the following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning;
and
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (a)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (d)   Division (a) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (a) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (a)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
§ 521.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 525:  LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC OFFICE
Section
525.01   Definitions
525.02   Falsification
525.03   Impersonation of peace officer
525.04   Compounding a crime
525.05   Failure to report a crime, injury or knowledge of death
525.06   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
525.07   Obstructing official business
525.08   Obstructing justice
525.09   Resisting arrest
525.10   Haying an unlawful interest in a public contract
525.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
525.12   Dereliction of duty
525.13   Interfering with civil rights
525.14   Unauthorized display of law enforcement emblems on motor vehicles
525.15   Private police or watchmen
525.16   False allegation of peace officer misconduct
525.17   Refusal to disclose personal information in public place
 
525.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Law enforcement officer defined, see §
501.01(k)
   Making false alarms, see §
509.07
   Misconduct at an emergency, see §
509.05
   Personating an officer to defraud, see §
545.16
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 525.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE, LEGISLATIVE
CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL PARTY and POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY.  Have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 3517.01.
   DETENTION.  Includes arrest, confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an
arrest, confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons
charged with or convicted of a crime in this state or another state or under
the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or
unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of the United
States; hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or
private facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of Ohio
R.C. 2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39 or 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation, except as provided in
this subsection, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures; that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state
into this state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under Ohio R.C. 311.29(E) or Ohio R.C. 5149.03(B). For a person confined
in a county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 5147.30, DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and
going to and from the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY.  Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of the
United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING.  Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL.  Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which the
person directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party
affairs at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT and MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.  Have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. 2913.40.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Any elected or appointed officer, or employee, or agent of
the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes, but is not limited to, legislators, judges
and law enforcement officers.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any public official;
      (2)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant; and
      (3)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not the
person is elected or appointed to the office for which the person is a
candidate. A person is a CANDIDATE  for purposes of this division (3) if the
person has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to
public office, or if the person has filed a petition or petitions as required
by law to have the person’s name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or
special election, or if the person campaigns as a write-in candidate in any
primary, general or special election.
   VALUABLE THING  or VALUABLE BENEFIT.  Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 525.02  FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding;
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another;
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing the public official’s official function;
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits; economic development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.66; or
other benefits administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public
treasury;
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement;
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths;
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law;
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to that person’s detriment;
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense;
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report;
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law;
      (12)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder or the clerk of a court
of record;
      (13)   The statement is made with purpose to obtain an Ohio’s Best Rx
program enrollment card or a payment from the Department of Job and Family
Services; or
      (14)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. 5743.20 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under division (a)(6) above that the oath
or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (c)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of divisions (a)(1) to (a)(8) or
(a)(10) to (a)(14) hereof is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(9) hereof is guilty of falsification
in a theft offense, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
property or services stolen is $500 or more, falsification in a theft offense
is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   A person who violates this section is liable in a civil action to any
person harmed by the violation for injury, death or loss to person or property
incurred as a result of the commission of the offense and for reasonable
attorneys’ fees, court costs and other expenses incurred as a result of
prosecuting the civil action commenced under this section. A civil action under
this section is not the exclusive remedy of a person who incurs injury, death
or loss to person or property as a result of a violation of this section.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (f)   No person, for the purpose of registering a child or children in the
city school district for free schooling as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3313.64,
shall knowingly give or assist in giving to any school or the Board of
Education of such school district any false information including, but not
limited to, the giving of an address indicating that such child or children are
school residents of such school district when in fact their parents are not
residents of such school district as defined and required by Ohio R.C. 3313.64.
(Ord. 7320, passed 7-31-1979)
§ 525.03  IMPERSONATION OF PEACE OFFICER.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  An employee of the United States
who serves in a position, the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      (2)   IMPERSONATE.  To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      (3)   INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND
INVESTIGATION.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.11.
      (4)   PEACE OFFICER.  A sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal,
member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation or
township constable who is employed by a political subdivision of this state, a
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
Ohio R.C. 3735.31(D), a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. 306.35(Y), a state university law enforcement officer
appointed under Ohio R.C. 3345.04, a veterans’ home police officer appointed
under Ohio R.C. 5907.02, a special police officer employed by a port authority
under Ohio R.C. 4582.04 or 4582.28, or a state highway patrol trooper and whose
primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property and to
enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the state or any of its political
subdivisions.
      (5)   PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER.  Any security guard, special police
officer, private detective or other person who is privately employed in a
police capacity.
   (b)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, a
federal law enforcement officer or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation.
   (c)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, a private police officer,
a federal law enforcement officer, or Investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (d)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, a private police officer, a federal
law enforcement officer or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or an officer, agent or employee of the state
or the municipality.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) above that
the impersonation of the peace officer was for a lawful purpose.
   (f)   No person shall falsely pretend or represent himself or herself to be
a public official or public servant with intent to induce another to submit to
such pretended official authority or otherwise to act in reliance upon that
pretense to his or her prejudice.
(Ord. 6943, passed 12-21-1976)  Penalty, see §
525.99
§ 525.04  COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §§
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2) or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (c)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (b) above, the abandonment or agreement in no way binds the
state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 525.05  FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME, INJURY OR KNOWLEDGE OF DEATH.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) below, no person, knowing
that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly fail to report
the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (b)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (e) below,
no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall negligently fail to
report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab wound treated or
observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to persons that the person
knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from an offense of violence.
   (c)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (d)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (c) above was made, or to any law enforcement
officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to investigate the
circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or her knowledge that
may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         A.   Second or third degree burns;
         B.   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         C.   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
         D.   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or
that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or
criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local
arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person
is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under divisions
(e)(2) or (e)(3) above shall fail to file, within three working days after
attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury with the
office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under this division
(e) or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from the reports
is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred
or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the
physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered nurse-patient
relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a person’s burn
injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding resulting
from a report submitted under this division (e).
   (f)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (f)(1) above, and the information may be admitted
as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (g)   Divisions (a) or (d) above does not require disclosure of information,
when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide those services.
   (h)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) above is guilty of failure to
report a crime. Violation of division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. Violation of division (a)(2) or (b) above is a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) above is guilty of failure to
report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (k)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (e) above is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (e) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (l)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 525.06  FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 525.07  OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 525.08  OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (b)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (a) above regardless
of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for, is charged
with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a delinquent child
for committing the crime or act the person or child aided committed. The crime
or act the person or child aided committed shall be used under division (c)
below in determining the penalty for violation of division (a) above,
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT OF TERRORISM . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT  and CHILD.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 525.09  RESISTING ARREST.
   (a)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (b)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (a) above is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A
violation of division (b) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A
violation of division (c) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (e)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from law enforcement officer, felony, see
R.C. § 2911.01
§ 525.10  HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (a)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (b)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (d)   Division (a)(4) above does not prohibit participation by a public
employee in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public employee
otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or influence
of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from the
program and if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the public
employee. This participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in a
public contract in violation of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (a)(3), (a)
(4) or (a)(5) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (g)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT.  Any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
§ 525.11  SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (a)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (b)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (c)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (f)   Divisions (a), (b) and (c) above do not prohibit any person from
making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 525.12  DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (a)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (b)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (c)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape; or
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (d)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Council for the
use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution with which the
public official is connected.
   (e)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (h)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
and
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 525.13  INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (a)   No public servant, under color of his or her office, employment or
authority, shall knowingly deprive, conspire or attempt to deprive any person
of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
§ 525.14  UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEMS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 525.15  PRIVATE POLICE OR WATCHMEN.
   The Mayor may require that any person acting for himself or herself or as an
employer of others who desires to provide special police, watchmen, detective
or escort service be registered by the city and that the uniform, badge, cap
and other equipment be approved by the Mayor so as not to resemble or conflict
with the uniform, badge, cap or other equipment of the city Police Department.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 525.16  FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 2935.01.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making a false allegation
of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 525.17  REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   (a)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         A.   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         B.   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         C.   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offenses identified in division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. above;
         D.   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. above or any attempt, conspiracy or complicity
described in division (a)(2)C. above has been, is being or is about to be
committed.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of failure to disclose
one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Nothing in division (a) above requires a person to answer any
questions beyond that person’s name, address or date of birth. Nothing in
division (a) above authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a person for
not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address or date of
birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (d)   It is not a violation of division (a) above to refuse to answer a
question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is an element
of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (e)   No person entering an airport, train station, port or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (f)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (e)
above from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
§ 525.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 527:  LITTERING
Section
527.01   Definitions
527.02   Litter on public property
527.03   Deposit of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
527.04   Upsetting public or private receptacles
527.05   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
527.06   Litter thrown from vehicles
527.07   Truck loads causing litter
527.08   Litter in parks
527.09   Throwing or distributing handbills on public property
527.10   Throwing or depositing handbills on private property
527.11   Depositing handbills on vehicles
527.12   Litter on private property
527.13   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
527.14   Litter on vacant lands
527.15   Refuse for waste collection
527.16   Waiver
527.17   Illegal dumping and litter control
 
527.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering prohibited in parks, see §
931.05
   Obstructing watercourse, see §
521.04
   Waste collection and disposal, see
Ch. 939
§ 527.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words
used in the singular number include the plural number, and words used in the
plural number include the singular number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL.  Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   GARBAGE.  Putrescible animal, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable waste resulting
from handling, preparation, cooking, consumption and storage of food.
   LITTER.  Includes garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all
other waste matter which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
depreciate property values or may create a nuisance or a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL.  Printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definition of “commercial handbill”.
   PARK.  A park, playground, playfield, recreation center or any other public
property in the city devoted to active or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property not included in the definition of “public
property” below, including, but not limited to, vacant land or any land,
building or other structures designed or used for residential, commercial,
business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together with any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox and
other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All property owned, operated or controlled by any
governmental agency, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, tree
lawns, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, schools, libraries, post offices,
municipal transit facilities and all other public lands and buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible waste, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, market
and industrial waste, trash, junk or similar substance or material.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrappings, dirt, cigarettes, cardboard,
tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 527.02  LITTER ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
treelawn, sidewalk or other public property except in public receptacles for
collection.
   (b)   The owner, tenant or person in charge of particular private premises
may place litter, waste or refuse on the treelawn adjacent to such premises in
approved containers and in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 939 of the
codified ordinances and rules adopted pursuant thereto, but only during the
hours between 6:00 p.m. on the day next preceding the day designated by the
Director of Public Services for solid waste collection at such premises and the
time of collection on the day so designated, provided further, however, that no
rule shall permit approved containers or litter to remain in any treelawn areas
beyond 6:00 p.m. on the day designated for solid waste collection at the
adjacent premises. No owner, tenant or person in charge of any private premises
shall place any litter or containers in the treelawn adjacent to such premises,
except in the manner provided and during the hours authorized by this section.
No owner, tenant or person in charge of any private premises shall fail to
remove and maintain the treelawn adjacent to such premises free from any litter
or containers at all times, except for placement made in the manner provided
and during the hours authorized by this section.
(Ord. 7057, passed 9-6-1977)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.03  DEPOSIT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons depositing litter in public or private receptacles shall do so in
such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, tree lawn, sidewalk or other public or private property.  If a
receptacle is filled to capacity, such litter shall be properly disposed of
elsewhere.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 527.04  UPSETTING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset a public or private receptacle designed or used for
the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be deposited or strewn
on public or private property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.05  SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or sweep into any gutter, sidewalk, tree
lawn, street or other public property the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk, tree lawn or driveway.
The person owning, occupying or in control of property shall keep the sidewalk
and tree lawn in front of his or her premises free of litter.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.06  LITTER THROWN FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter in or upon any street, tree lawn, sidewalk or other public or private
property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.07  TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle unless such vehicle
is so loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any street, tree lawn, sidewalk or other public or private
property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.08  LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any park except in public
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of that park or upon any
other public or private property. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere. No person shall throw or
deposit litter in any lake, pond or other body of water or natural watercourse
in a park or elsewhere.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.09  THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public property. No person shall hand out
or distribute or sell any commercial handbill on any public property. However,
it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk or street or, unless specifically
prohibited by the controlling governmental agency, on any other public property
for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it,
provided that the person making such distribution shall not hamper or interfere
with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.10  THROWING OR DEPOSITING HANDBILLS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private property except in such a manner as to prevent it from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, tree lawn, sidewalk
or other public or private property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.11  DEPOSITING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle. However, it shall not be unlawful on any public or private
property, unless specifically prohibited by the person or agency controlling
such property, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it, provided that the person making such distribution shall
not hamper or interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.12  LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any private
property except in authorized receptacles for collection or other properly
maintained receptacles.
   (b)   No person shall deposit litter in such receptacles in such a manner
that it will be carried or deposited by the elements upon private or public
property.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.13  OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner, occupant or person in control of any private property shall at
all times maintain the premises free of litter except that litter which is
contained in receptacles for collection.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 527.14  LITTER ON VACANT LANDS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property whether owned by such person or not.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
527.99
§ 527.15  REFUSE FOR WASTE COLLECTION.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, it shall not be
unlawful to properly deposit or place on public or private property refuse for
waste collection, provided that such refuse is placed or deposited pursuant to
all city rules and regulations.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)
§ 527.16  WAIVER.
   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
501.99, any person who violates any provision of §§
527.02 to
527.15 except §§
527.06 and
527.07, may execute and file with the Clerk of the Municipal Court an
instrument waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit or complaint and
warrant, together with the reading of such affidavit or complaint and the right
to be present personally at the trial of such action, and further waiving the
right of appeal in error, and authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered and
the defendant submitted to the mercy of the Court.
   (b)   Upon depositing with such Clerk $25 within seven days of the date of
the citation for a first offense or upon depositing $50 within seven days of
the date of the citation for a second or subsequent offense within a 12-month
period, such person may be fined the aforesaid amounts by the Court. After
seven days from the date of the citation or where an affidavit or complaint and
warrant have been issued charging a person with violating any provision of §§
527.02 to
527.15 except §§
527.06 and
527.07, such person shall be subject to the general code penalty contained in §
501.99.
(Ord. 7257, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 527.17  ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTER CONTROL.
   (a)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Law enforcement officers of the city and the Chief Building
Official or other code enforcement officers are hereby empowered to and shall
enforce provisions of this section.
      (2)   Any citizen of the city may file a sworn affidavit after making a
police report with the Law Department to be taken against any party in
violation of the ordinance.
      (3)   The Chief Building Official, other code enforcement officer or law
enforcement officer of the city may initiate an investigation where the officer
has sufficient probable cause to believe this section is being violated.
      (4)   If the Chief Building Official, other code enforcement officer or
law enforcement officer discovers an article of garbage bearing a person’s,
corporation’s, company’s, firm’s, business’ or institution’s name or address on
any public or private property, it shall be presumed that said article of
garbage being so discovered is the property of such person whose name appears
thereon, and said person placed or caused to be placed such article of garbage;
provided, however, that such presumption shall be rebutted by competent
evidence. This presumption is based on the intent that all generators of such
items are responsible for such items until such time they have been properly
disposed.
   (b)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BULKY WASTE.  Stoves, water heaters, washing machines, furniture,
household construction debris, and other waste materials other than dead
animals, hazardous waste, and stable matter with weights or volume greater than
those allowed for placement in bags.
      COMMERCIAL ENTITY.  Any and all generators of commercial waste, including
commercial establishments, contractors, and non-profit entities such as
churches, public facilities, multi-family dwellings and other businesses.
      COMMERCIAL WASTE.  Any and all accumulations of non-hazardous refuse,
debris, and waste products generated by the operation of industries, stores,
building contractors, offices, churches, public facilities, multi-family
dwellings and other business establishments that are collected in industry-
standard front load or roll-off containers. Included in COMMERCIAL WASTE is
commercial construction debris.
      CONTAINER.  The receptacles used by residents and businesses for the
storage of solid waste and recyclables.
      DEAD ANIMALS.  Animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than 15
pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or
killed for human use or consumption.
      GARBAGE.  Every accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other
matter) that results from the handling, packing, preparation, processing,
consumption, dealing in, canning, storage, transportation, decay, or
decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains, or other animal or
vegetable matter (including but not by way of limitation, used tin cans and
other food containers; including all putrescible waste matter which is likely
to attract flies or rodents) except (in all cases) any matter included in the
definition of BULKY WASTE, DEAD ANIMALS, HAZARDOUS WASTE or RUBBISH .
      HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Waste in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriated state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or waste, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law. For purposes of this
section, the term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall also include motor oil, gasoline, paint
and appliances containing Freon.
      ILLEGAL, UNLAWFUL OR UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING.  Any collection of solid waste
exceeding five pounds in weight or five cubic feet in volume which is either
dumped or caused to be dumped or placed on any property either public or
private, whether or not regularly used, which tends to create a hazard to the
public health, safety and welfare, or declared a public nuisance, per se, shall
be considered as forming an illegal dump within the meaning of R.C. Chapter
3734, but not the careless, scattered littering of smaller individual items. An
illegal dump shall also mean any solid waste disposal site that does not meet
the regulatory provisions of R.C. § 3734.01(I).
      LITTER.  All garbage and rubbish, loosely strewn, uncollected,
unpackaged, and uncontained which includes but is not limited to paper,
bottles, cans, glass, crockery, plastic, rubber, waste building materials,
disposable packages, cigarette butts and other tobacco products, gum and
containers.
      MISCELLANEOUS NON-VEGETATIVE YARD WASTE.  Outdoor furniture, wire,
plastics, bicycles, toys, grills, or any other outdoor item that is not
classified as rubbish or yard waste (see YARD WASTE ).
      PERSON.  Any person, owner, lessee, firm, business, partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designed or used for private, commercial, or residential purposes, including
any yard, grounds, acreage, vacant lots, walk, driveway, porch, steps, parking
areas, vestibule, or mailbox belonging to such dwelling, house, building or
other structure.
      PUBLIC ROAD.  Any road or roadway that is maintained by a city, county,
state or federal government using public funds.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Any and all streets, public rights-of-way, easements,
medians, sidewalks, boulevards, highways, streets, alleys, or other public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds, buildings, and infrastructure.
      RESIDENT.  A person residing on the property, whether that person owns or
leases the residence.
      RUBBISH.  No putrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes) consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes. Combustible rubbish includes paper,
rags, cartons, wood, furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves and
similar material. Noncombustible rubbish includes glass, crockery, metal cans,
and metal furniture and like material, which will not burn at ordinary
incinerator temperatures (not less than 1600º F).
      SOLID WASTE.  All items contained in the definition of GARBAGE, BULKY
WASTE, DEAD ANIMALS, STABLE MATTER, MISCELLANEOUS YARD WASTE, RUBBISH,
HOUSEHOLD CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS or COMMERCIAL
WASTE (see also COMMERCIAL WASTE ).
      SOLID WASTE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (SWEO), CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL or CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  A person appointed by the city to manage the Building
Department, to enforce state laws related to solid waste and to enforce the
provisions of this section.
      SOLID WASTE HEARING OFFICER (SWHO) or CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL.  A person
appointed by the city to hear appeals from those who receive the written notice
of corrective action.
      SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT BMPS (BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES) THAT HELP
MINIMIZE ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTER.   Implementing certain solid waste BMPs
can help reduce illegal dumping and litter. These include:
         (a)   All residents have solid waste management services, either by
mandatory service/mandatory pay, or through proving they have service with a
hauler they hire;
         (b)   A convenient means of managing bulk waste is available and well-
advertised to the community;
         (c)   Residents are made aware of how to manage items like
electronics, HHW and used waste tires. Ideally these programs are low-cost or
no-cost to the resident and are convenient;
         (d)   The jurisdiction has some leverage over commercial haulers
through a licensing or permitting program;
         (e)   The jurisdiction’s solid waste ordinance requires behaviors that
help avoid litter, such as, all containers must be covered, limited out-of-cart
setouts, limited timeframe containers can be out before and after collection;
scavenging illegal;
         (f)   The solid waste ordinance specifies minimum collection frequency
and requirements for cleaning and maintaining containers; and
         (g)   The jurisdiction provides education about and enforces litter
and solid waste ordinances.
      TEMPORARY SIGNS.  Signs that are not meant to be a permanent or long-term
part of a business, facility or structure, but instead promote the sale or
improvement of a property, or are temporary political/election signs or signs
to advertise events such as yard sales, tag sales, parties and other events.
      UNSERVICEABLE OR DERELICT VEHICLE.   Disassembled, inoperable, junked or
wrecked motor vehicles, truck bodies, tractors, trailers, as used in this
section, means motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, truck bodies, tractors,
farm machinery or trailers in such a state of physical or mechanical ruin as to
be incapable of propulsion, being operated upon public streets or highways or
which is otherwise not in safe or legal condition for operation on public
streets or highways due to missing or inoperative parts, flat or removed tires,
expired or missing license plates or other defects.
      YARD WASTE.  The leaves, grass cuttings, weeds, garden waste, tree limbs,
and other vegetative wastes generated at residential, commercial,
institutional, governmental, or industrial properties.
   (c)   Containerization, control and transportation of solid waste.
      (1)   Containerization of litter and solid wastes in receptacles for
garbage collection.
         A.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit any materials in
receptacles placed for public use as a depository for litter, recyclables, or
solid wastes other than that specifically designated for that container.
         B.   All persons that place their solid waste in containers for
collection are responsible for unsightly garbage in and about the property
owned, operated or controlled by said persons. Spillage and overflow of wastes
around containers shall be promptly cleaned and properly disposed of within 24
hours.
         C.   It shall be the responsibility of each person to keep his or her
own property clean and free of garbage and any resulting litter. Any non-
contained and uncontrolled accumulation of garbage on any public or private
property is a violation of this section.
         D.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep right-of-way
areas in front of their premises (and behind, if alleys are present) free of
solid waste of all types.
         E.   It shall be the responsibility of the resident or the owner or
manager of a commercial or multi-family residential establishment to utilize a
storage system that will include containers of adequate size and strength and
in sufficient numbers up to the limit permissible to contain all solid waste
that the residence or other establishment generates in the period of time
between collections. The owner or, if leased, the lessee of the storage
containers shall be jointly and severally responsible for compliance with this
requirement.
         F.   Any solid waste resulting from construction, repair, or
alteration of any building in the city shall be contained and removed in a
timely manner by the generator and/or its contractor. All trees, tree limbs,
and brush cut by a contractor or any person performing such task or any other
yard wastes collected from the property shall either be managed on-site in
accordance with state law or should be removed and properly disposed. These
materials shall be placed in containers such that they will not be scattered by
the elements.
         G.   Residents and commercial entities shall set out solid waste and
recyclable materials only in approved containers, as described in Chapter 939
of this code of ordinances.
         H.   Waste spilled due to improper bagging or because the bag was not
protected from animals shall be cleaned up by the resident or commercial entity
within 24 hours.
         I.   Residents and commercial entities shall set out solid waste and
recyclables such that they cannot become scattered by the elements. All garbage
and other small, loose items for disposal shall be bagged before being placed
in the approved container. Recyclables shall be placed in a lidded cart or set
out such that heavier items are on top to avoid materials becoming scattered by
the elements.
         J.   Placing solid waste in someone else’s container, public or
private, constitutes theft of service, and is a violation of this section.
      (2)   Solid waste transportation.
         A.   Any solid waste materials being transported by vehicle shall be
secured in such a manner to prevent the materials from blowing, spilling or
falling from the vehicle.
         B.   Any driver or person in direct control of any vehicle from which
any materials or objects have fallen, blown, leaked, shifted or otherwise
escaped shall immediately cause said materials or objects to be cleaned up at
their own expense or be cited and fined in accordance with this section and the
laws of the state.
      (3)   Penalties.  Waste spilled because of improper bagging or because
the bag was not protected from animals must be cleaned up and re- bagged by the
owner within 24 hours. Any person who fails to properly bag garbage, secure
loads properly for transport, or to clean up spilled garbage is in violation of
this section and is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of $25 for
first occurrence, $50 for second occurrence and upon the third and subsequent
occurrences, $100 plus a minimum of five hours of community service work to be
devoted to matters pertaining to beautification programs within the city. A
commercial hauler can risk loss of its solid waste hauling permit for multiple
infractions or failure to pay penalties, see §§
939.24 through
939.26.
   (d)   Prevention of littering.
      (1)   Littering prohibited.
         A.   It is unlawful for any person to throw, discard, or deposit
litter, as defined in this section, in any manner or amount in or upon any
private or public property, highway, street, right-of-way, body of water, or
park in the city, except in public receptacles, in authorized private
receptacles, or in accordance with regulations and requirements set forth by
the city and its agent for collection.
         B.   It is unlawful for any person to sweep into or deposit in any
gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter
or yard waste from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk
or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalks,
entrance walks, parking lots and parking areas in front of or upon their
premises free of litter.
         C.   It is unlawful for any person, while a driver or passenger in a
vehicle, to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place
within the city or upon private property.
         D.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in any
public place within the city except to make deposits in public receptacles
specifically provided for solid waste, recycling, and cigarette butts. Where
public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from
the public place by the person responsible for its presence and properly
disposed of elsewhere as provided in this section.
         E.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or any other body of water in a public place
or elsewhere within the city.
         F.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any commercial
or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it
shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or
distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to
any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
         G.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any commercial
or noncommercial handbill or telephone books in or upon any private premises
which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
         H.   It is the duty of the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or person
in charge, to keep and cause to be kept the sidewalk and gutter areas (24
inches from curb into street) free from obstruction or nuisances of every kind,
and to keep sidewalks, gutter areas, archways, backyards, courts and alleys
free from litter and other offensive materials.
         I.   Temporary signs which advertise the sale, rental, lease or
improvement of the property on which it is located provided such signs do not
exceed six square feet in any residential zone, 20 square feet in commercial
zones, and 30 square feet in industrial zones. Signs advertising pending
improvements shall not be in place more than 60 days prior to commencement of
such improvements. Temporary signs shall be removed within ten days after
completion of the activity advertised. Such signs shall not be lighted nor
internally illuminated. Election signs shall be considered temporary signs and
shall comply with the above requirements.
      (2)   Penalties for littering.  Any person found to be in violation of
any provisions of this section where the amount of litter and/or solid waste
does not exceed five pounds in weight or five cubic feet in volume and where
the activity generating the litter or solid waste is not for commercial
purposes is guilty of littering and subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in R.C. Chapter 3734 and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50
nor more than $250. In addition to, or in lieu of, the fine imposed hereunder,
the person so convicted may be ordered to pick up litter for not less than
five, nor more than 50 hours.
   (e)   Prevention of illegal dumping.
      (1)   Illegal dumping prohibited.
         A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create, or allow an
illegal dump on any private or public property. Illegal dumps shall be
eliminated by removal and proper legal management of the dumped material. Solid
waste from the illegal dump site will be disposed in an approved and permitted
landfill and/or recycling facility.
         B.   Not more than one unregistered and uninspected vehicle shall be
stored or parked outdoors in any residential zone. Storage or abandonment of
unserviceable or derelict vehicles is prohibited in any residential zone.
         C.   It shall be unlawful to abandon a watercraft or outboard motor on
the public land or waters of this state or the city or on private property
without permission of the property owner. This section does not apply to
persons who abandon a watercraft in an emergency for the safety of the person
onboard; however, after the emergency is over, the owner and operator of the
abandoned watercraft shall make a bona fide attempt to recover the watercraft.
      (2)   Penalties.
         A.   Illegal dumping (misdemeanor): any person found to be in
violation of any provisions of this section where the amount of litter and/or
solid waste exceeds five pounds or five cubic feet in volume, but does not
exceed 500 pounds in weight or 100 cubic feet in volume and where the activity
generating the litter or solid waste is not for commercial purposes is guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in R.C.
Chapter 3734, and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, or imprisonment for a term of not more than one year, or both. In
addition to, or in lieu of, the fine imposed hereunder, the person so convicted
may be ordered to pick up litter for not less than five nor more than 100
hours.
         B.   Illegal dumping (felony): any person found to be in violation of
this section where the amount of litter or solid waste exceeds 500 pounds in
weight or 100 cubic feet in volume, or in any amount or volume of solid waste
where the activity generating the litter or solid waste was for commercial
purposes, or in any amount of volume of hazardous waste, is guilty of a felony
and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in R.C. Chapter 3734 and
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $750 nor more than $50,000, or to
imprisonment for a term of not more than five years, or both. For purposes of
the fine, each day shall constitute a separate violation.
         C.   A person violating the provisions of subsection C. is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be fined not less than $1,000 nor more
than $5,000 or imprisoned up to 30 days, or both. In addition, the owner must
remove the abandoned watercraft within 14 days of conviction. The Municipal
Court is vested with jurisdiction for cases arising under this section.
         D.   An abandoned watercraft shall be removed at the risk and the
expense of the owner.
      (3)   Illegal dump cleanup.
         A.   Generally.
            1.   The property owner shall be responsible to clean up the
illegal dump.
            2.   Upon a written request by the property owner certifying that
they are financially or otherwise incapable of cleaning up the site, as per
R.C. Chapter 3734, and upon approval by the city.
         B.   Penalties.  Penalties within those set forth above, at the
discretion of the Court, repeat or exacerbated littering/illegal dumping might
include:
            1.   Impose a higher fee or other penalty for a second and/or
subsequent offense;
            2.   Impose a higher fee/penalty for the littering of a lit
cigarette, cigar, or other items that could cause a fire;
            3.   Impose a higher fee/penalty for the illegal dumping or
littering of waste considered to be more dangerous or potentially dangerous,
such as hazardous waste and electronic waste; or
            4.   Community service hours that help remediate a similar type of
violation within the East Cleveland community; and may include cleaning up the
illegal dumpsite. However, before such work may begin, a consent form for
removal from private property must be fully executed (see Appendix A in this
section).
   (f)   Enforcement of officers.
      (1)   Enforcement procedure for Solid Waste Enforcement Officer.
         A.   Upon receiving a complaint (see Appendix B in this section)
alleging unlawful litter or an illegal dump, the Solid Waste Enforcement
Officer (SWEO) or other appropriate code enforcement officer discusses the
issue with the resident, property owner, or the person believed responsible to
try and resolve the issue. For leased property, the SWEO or other appropriate
code enforcement officer will attempt to contact the tenant first and the owner
only after attempts to work with the tenant does not result in compliance to
this section.
         B.   If, after investigating an alleged illegal dump site or litter
problem, the SWEO or other appropriate code enforcement officer believes
further action should be taken and, if the issue cannot be resolved, the SWEO
shall issue a written notice of corrective action (see Appendix C in this
section).
         C.   The written notice of corrective action may be issued to
suspected violators of this section in lieu of citation or arrest.
            1.   Notices shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the suspected violator’s last known place of residence and shall
be deemed personal service upon the person for the purpose of this section.
            2.   Notices shall include the date issued, a description of the
alleged offense committed, an explanation of the corrective measures to be
taken, and the date and time by which such corrections shall be made.
            3.   The issuing authority of notifications shall retain all such
notices issued and make them available for public inspection during normal
office hours.
         D.   If the person notified of a suspected violation does not contest
the written notice of corrective action, and completes the corrective measures
within the time specified, the Solid Waste Enforcement Officer or other
officer, such as code enforcement officer will issue a certificate of
compliance certifying that the suspected violation no longer exists (see
Appendix C in this section).
      (2)   Appeal procedure.  If the person notified of an alleged violation
wishes to contest the written notice of corrective action, they must submit in
writing, within ten days of receipt by registered mail of the written notice of
corrective action, a request for a hearing to the Solid Waste Hearing Officer
(the Chief Building Official).
         A.   The Solid Waste Hearing Officer (the Chief Building Official)
shall schedule a meeting date within 15 days from receipt of a request for a
hearing.
         B.   The Solid Waste Hearing Officer (the Chief Building Official)
after considering all evidence shall make a ruling that dismisses the alleged
violation or affirms the issuance of the written notice of corrective action.
Note: the cost of the hearing shall be a charge to the city upon dismissal of
the alleged violation, or a charge to the person(s) that requested the hearing
upon a ruling that requires remediation. The Solid Waste Hearing Officer (the
Chief Building Official) may grant an extension of time for remediation upon
considering justifying circumstances.
      (3)   Failure to comply.  Any person who has been served a written notice
of corrective action in accordance with the provisions of this section, and who
shall neglect, refuse or fail to fully comply with the corrective notices so
ordered, and/or within the time frame so ordered therein, shall be in violation
of this section. The Solid Waste Enforcement Officer or appropriate hearing
officer shall file an affidavit with the appropriate court of jurisdiction for
prosecution.
   (g)   Threats to public health and safety. 
      (1)   Complaint by petition.
         A.   Any resident of the city may present a written petition (see
Appendix E in this section) to the city to order the cleanup of private
property that presents a threat to the health and safety of city residents. The
petition must contain the signatures of a majority of those tenants,
households, and/or owners of parcels within 750 feet of the alleged violating
property.
         B.   Upon receipt of a petition, the city will order a hearing and
give notice of the complaint and hearing to the involved tenant and/or property
owner in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3734.
      (2)   Individual complaints.  Individuals may initiate an investigation
by filing a written complaint (see Appendix B in this section) with the Solid
Waste Enforcement Officer (the Chief Building Official) alleging that the
conditions of a parcel of land constitutes a menace to the health, safety, and
welfare of the adjacent community.
         A.   Upon receipt of the complaint, the Solid Waste Enforcement
officer or other appropriate code enforcement officer will investigate the
matter and confer with the members of the city. If the Solid Waste Enforcement
Officer (the Chief Building Official) determines that there is substantial
evidence to believe that the condition of such property does pose a menace to
the health, safety, and welfare of the local community, he or she will
recommend that the Building Department convene a hearing in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 3734.
         B.   All documents maintained by the city under this chapter,
including petitions and individual complaints, are public records subject to
disclosure under the Public Records Act. However, in the event a complainant or
complainants request(s) that the complaint or petition and/or their identity
not be disclosed by the city in accordance with R.C. Chapter 149, the city will
immediately determine whether to maintain confidentiality based on the factors
delineated in R.C. Chapter 149.
      (3)   Examples.  Examples of littering and illegal dumping conditions on
private property that may be considered illegal and declared a menace to the
public health and safety of the community include:
         A.   Properties that contain items that hold water and make a good
mosquito-breeding habitat (example: open barrels, tires and the like);
         B.   Buckets, drums, containers, or other items that hold oil or other
liquids that may spill, drip, or leak and, if rained upon, may spill over and
contaminate the soil;
         C.   Material that is fly producing, rat harboring and/or is odorous;
         D.   Loose material of significant volume that may be blown onto the
city’s road right-of-way or neighboring property;
         E.   Objects that create a condition that may be expected to attract
children and constitute a danger to their safety;
         F.   Hazardous, toxic, or radioactive waste as defined by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency or the federal Environmental Protection Agency,
including appliances that contain Freon, such as, refrigerators and air
conditioners;
         G.   Discarded dead animals weighing 15 pounds or more that may be
infectious or odorous;
         H.   Burning of garbage as per R.C. § 3745.19; or
         I.   Illegal discharge to state waters. It shall be unlawful for any
person to throw, discard or deposit garbage, rubbish, yard waste or other solid
wastes into any river, creek, stream, water drainage way, or in any other
manner that would result in the wash out of wastes into state waters.
      (4)   Failure to comply.
         A.   If a written notice of corrective action is issued and the
condition described is not resolved within 30 days, the property owner will be
ordered to appear before the Building Department for a show cause hearing.
         B.   If the Building Department finds that the condition on the
property constitutes a menace to the health and safety of the community, the
Board can order the property owner to clean up his property.
         C.   Upon the failure or refusal of any person so notified to properly
dispose of garbage, rubbish and/or yard waste from their property within 30
days after issuance of proper corrective notice, the city may effect the
removal of said garbage, rubbish, and/or yard waste and charge the owner of
such property for the actual cost of removal pursuant to Chapter 1313 of this
code of ordinances and such assessment may be a lien against the property.
   (h)   Conflict.  It is not intended that this section repeal, abrogate,
annul, impair, or interfere with any existing provisions of any other
ordinances or laws. However, if the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, or ordinances of the city conflict with this section, the
more restrictive or that imposing the higher standards will govern.
   (i)   Severability. Severability is intended throughout and within the
provisions of this section. If any provision, including any exception, part,
phrase or term or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid by a Court of appropriate jurisdiction, the application to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, and the validity of
this section in any and all other respects shall not be affected thereby. The
City Council does not intend a result that is absurd, impossible to execute or
unreasonable. It is intended that this section be held inapplicable in such
cases, if any, where its application would be unconstitutional as
constitutionally permitted construction is intended and shall be given.
   (j)   Cumulative. This section shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other laws in force.
   (k)   Non-exclusive remedy. The standards and procedures set forth in this
section are non-exclusive and therefore citizens and the city may
simultaneously proceed under one or more provisions as to any single condition
as deemed appropriate.
   (l)   Effective date. The City Council does hereby find that it is necessary
for the immediate and temporary preservation of the public cleanliness, health
and safety that this section be made effective at the earliest period permitted
by law. Accordingly, this section shall be in full force and effect from and
after the June 15, 2017, of its enactment, and the Clerk is directed to publish
notice accordingly.
APPENDIX A
CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
CONSENT FORM:
CLEAN UP OPTIONS FOR ILLEGAL DUMP SITE
INSTRUCTIONS:
Please fill in property information below, and then check Option 1 or Option 2.
Deliver this completed form to the City of East Cleveland Solid Waste
Enforcement Officer/Building Inspector at 14340 Euclid Avenue, East Cleveland,
Ohio 44112.
      Option 1:
I (We) certify that the illegal dumpsite shall be cleaned up and disposed of
legally (subject to inspection) within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
certified mail notice from ________ the City of East Cleveland
      Option 2:
I (We) certify that I (we) are financially or otherwise incapable of cleaning
up the site (explain below), as per                        (appropriate state
code), and agree to allow ____________________ (jurisdiction) personnel and
equipment access to my (our) property. By marking this option and signing below
I (we) agree that the City of East Cleveland, Ohio shall not be liable for any
personal property damages including, but not limited to, trees, shrubs, fences,
roads, grounds, utilities or any other damage caused by the removal or burying
of the debris.
For Option 2, please provide below an explanation why the property owner is
financially or otherwise incapable of cleaning up the illegal dump:
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Owner’s Name (print)   Co-Owner’s Name (print)
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Owner’s Signature    Co-Owner's Name (print)
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Date
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Owner’s Street Address or P.O. Box       Co-Owner’s Street Address or P.O. Box
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Owner’s City, State, Zip Code         Co-Owner’s City, State, and ZIP Code
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Owner’s Telephone Number          Co-Owner’s Telephone Number
APPENDIX B
CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
WRITTEN COMPLAINT FORM
REQUESTING INVESTIGATION OF ILLEGAL LITTERING OR DUMPING PURPOSE:
The purpose of this form is to assist citizens of     _____________________
(jurisdiction) to submit written complaints to the _____________________
(jurisdiction) Solid Waste Enforcement Officer (or other appropriate code
enforcement officer). Use of this form is optional and written notice does not
have to be given on this form. If preferred, a complaint can be made by phone
by calling the Solid Waste Enforcement Officer at _________________ phone
number) or by email at    _____________________ (appropriate email address).
Please include all of the information below in your communications.
INSTRUCTIONS:
1.   Fill in date, property address, and complainant information below.
2.   Provide a brief description of the problem. (Include photographs if
possible.)
3.   Deliver this complaint form to the    _____________________ (jurisdiction)
Solid Waste Enforcement Officer (or other appropriate code enforcement officer)
___________________________________________________________________________________ 
(appropriate jurisdiction address)
Date: _____________________
I am requesting an investigation by the _____________________ (jurisdiction)
Solid Waste Enforcement Officer (or Building Inspector) the property at
(address)
___________________________________________________________________________________
Problem Description:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
Complainant Information:
___________________________
Name (printed)
___________________________
Street Address
___________________________
City, State, Zip Code
APPENDIX C
CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND
Solid Waste Department/Building Department
WRITTEN NOTICE OF CORRECTIVE ACTION
To:
___________________________________________________________________________________
   Property Owner Date of Issue
   _________________________________________________________________________________
   Street Address City, State, Zip Code
Dear Property Owner:
                   (jurisdiction) has received a complaint about a possible
violation of the                                              (jurisdiction)
Illegal Dumping and Litter Control Ordinance (_____________________
(jurisdiction) Ordinance) on your property. An investigation has confirmed the
condition or conditions checked below exist on your property within the
political boundaries of                  (jurisdiction).
Your property contains an illegal dump with the amount of solid waste on your
property exceeding five (5) pounds in weight or five (5) cubic feet in volume,
the maximum amount allowed per           (appropriate state code) (See
             (jurisdiction) Ordinance Article II, Section 1.)
Your property contains an illegal dump with the amount of solid waste on your
property exceeding five hundred (500) pounds in weight or one hundred (100)
cubic feet in volume, the maximum amount allowed per ________ (appropriate
state code) (See              (jurisdiction) Ordinance Article II, Section 1.)
Your properly contains excessive uncontained litter. (See              
(jurisdiction) Article II, Section 2.)
You are operating a salvage business on your property without a valid       
(type of permit) permit from                  (appropriate state permitting
agency). (See              (jurisdiction) Ordinance Article II, Section 3.)
If you believe that you are not in violation of the              (jurisdiction)
Illegal Dumping and Litter Control Ordinance, you may appeal this Written
Notice of Corrective action by contacting the Solid Waste Enforcement Office
(or other appropriate enforcement office) in writing within 10 days and request
a hearing with the Solid Waste Hearing Officer (or other appropriate hearing
officer).
As the property owner, you must take all corrective actions checked below:
Clean up your property within 30 days of the “Date of Issue” above to bring it
into compliance with the              (jurisdiction) Ordinance.
Deadline for completion:                   
Obtain a _____ (appropriate type of permit) permit from _______ (state
permitting agency) to operate a salvage yard within 30 days of the “Date of
Issue” above to bring it into compliance with the (jurisdiction) Ordinance.
Deadline for completion:                   
After you have completed the corrective actions checked above, you must notify
the           (jurisdiction) Solid Waste Enforcement Officer (SWEO) (or
Building Inspector). If you are no longer in violation, the SWEO (or Building
Inspector) will issue a Certificate of Compliance to provide documentation that
you have corrected the problem. If you are financially or otherwise unable to
clean up your property and you can certify that person(s) unknown to you
created the dump, ORC § 3734 et seq. allows you to request assistance from the
City of East Cleveland. This option requires that you submit an application
form (Clean Up Options for Illegal Dump Site), that funding is available, and
that your request is approved by the (governing entity in the jurisdiction). If
you do not complete the corrective actions checked above, the             
(jurisdiction) SWEO) or other appropriate officer) will file an affidavit with
a court of competent jurisdiction for your case.
Signed,
___________________________________________________________________________________
Jurisdiction SWEO (Building Official) Telephone Number (216) 681-2082
APPENDIX D
CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
Solid Waste Department/Building Department
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
To:
___________________________________________________________________________________
Property Owner Date of Issue
___________________________________________________________________________________
Street Address City, State, Zip Code
Dear Property Owner:
Regarding the Written Notice of Corrective Action you received on (date) 
               , you have now satisfactorily completed the corrective actions
requested.
Signed,
___________________________________________________________________________________
Solid Waste/Building Department Telephone Number (216) 681-2082
Enforcement Officer (or Building Inspector)
APPENDIX E
PETITION TO THE _____________________ CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
REQUESTING PROPERTY CLEAN UP
INSTRUCTIONS:
1.   Fill in date:
2.   Fill in property address:
3.   Provide a brief description of the problem. (Include photographs if
possible.)
4.   Collect signatures of at least 50% of the adjacent property owners (those
who own property within 750 feet of the property alleged to have a violation).
5.   Deliver this petition to the                                        
(appropriate contact in jurisdiction, and address)
   Date:                   
We, the undersigned residents of                    (jurisdiction) are
petitioning the               (governing entity) to order the cleanup of the
property at (address)
___________________________________________________________
Address of Property
Problem Description:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
Signatures (Continue on additional page if needed):
 
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
___________________________________________________________________________________
Name Address
(Ord. 17-18, passed 9-18-2018
§ 527.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
   Regardless of the penalties that may be provided in §
501.99, whenever a person is convicted of an offense pursuant to §§
527.06 or
527.07, he or she shall be assessed a mandatory, non-discretionary penalty of
$1,000 fine.
(Ord. 98-93, passed 9-21-1993)
CHAPTER 529:  LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
529.01   Definitions
529.02   Sales to and use by underage persons; securing public accommodations
529.021   Purchase, consumption or possession by minor; misrepresentation
529.03   Sales to intoxicated persons
529.04   Liquor consumption in motor vehicle
529.05   Permit required
529.06   Low-alcohol beverages: sale to and purchase by underage persons
prohibited
529.07   Open container prohibited
529.08   Hours of sale or consumption
529.09   Taking beer or liquor into public places
529.10   Selling, giving or drinking beer or liquor in public places
529.11   Bottle clubs prohibited
529.12   Mayor authorized to permit consumption on city property
 
529.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct; intoxication, see §
509.03
   Local option, see Ohio R.C. 4301.32 et seq, 4303.29
   Prohibiting sale of intoxicating liquor on Sunday, see Ohio R.C. 4301.22(D)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see §
549.04
§ 529.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. Such term
excludes denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   BEER, MALT LIQUOR  or  MALT BEVERAGES.  Includes all brewed or fermented
malt products containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume but not more than 6%
of alcohol by weight.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR  and LIQUOR.
      (1)   Include all liquids and compounds, other than beer as defined
above, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for
beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by
whatever name called and whether the same are medicated, proprietary or
patented.
      (2)   Such phrase includes wine as defined in Ohio R.C. 4301.01 even if
it contains less than 4% of alcohol by volume, mixed beverages as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4301.01 even if they contain less than 4% of alcohol by volume,
alcohol and all solids and confections which contain any alcohol.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE.  Any brewed or fermented malt product, or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products, that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
(R.C. § 4301.01)
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
(R.C. § 4301.01)
§ 529.02  SALES TO AND USE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS; SECURING PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4301, no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage
person, or shall buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or
shall furnish it to, an underage person, unless given by a physician in the
regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian.
      (2)   In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission, no permit
holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a violation of
this division (a) shall be charged, for the same offense, with a violation of
Ohio R.C. 4301.22(A)(1).
   (b)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the
intoxicating liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it
by that person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian
and the parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian is
present at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of this division (b) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (c)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when he or she knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person;
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a practitioner and has the drug of abuse
in the original container in which it was dispensed to the person.
   (d)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the cost-of,
attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating liquor, in
any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be under the
influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division (e) against an underage person
knowingly possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or
intoxicating liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or
intoxicating liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (f)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person or legal guardian of a
minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or §
529.021(a) to (c).
   (g)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DRUG OF ABUSE . Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.011.
      (2)   HOTEL . Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3731.01.
      (3)   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS  and
PRESCRIPTION.  Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
      (4)   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18 years.
      (5)   UNDERAGE PERSON.  A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. In addition, whoever violates division (a) above shall be fined not
less than $500.
(R.C. § 4301.99)
§ 529.021  PURCHASE, CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION BY MINOR; MISREPRESENTATION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating
liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or consume any beer
or intoxicating liquor, either from a sealed or unsealed container or by the
glass or by the drink, or possess any beer or intoxicating liquor, in any
public or private place.
(R.C. § 4301.632)
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name,
age or other identification of any person under 21 years of age for the purpose
of obtaining or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a permit issued by the
Department of Liquor Control or sold by the Department of Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
§ 529.03  SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell or
furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
§ 529.04  LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in §
529.07(d).
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (b)   If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. If the offender is 15 years
and six months of age or older and has not been issued a temporary instruction
permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender shall not be eligible to
be issued such a license or permit for a period of six months. If the offender
has not attained the age of 15 years and six months, the offender shall not be
eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit until the offender attains
the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99)
§ 529.05  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee shall
manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale, furnish or
sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating liquor in
this municipality, or transport, import or cause to be transported or imported
any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol on or into this municipality for
delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with Ohio R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
§ 529.06  LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES: SALE TO AND PURCHASE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (g)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee of that
place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (h)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (i)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
§ 529.07  OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.  A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      (2)   STREET, HIGHWAY , and MOTOR VEHICLE.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)E. of this section, in a State
liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2 permit holder or S permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         E.   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting sample,
as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (c)(2), “music festival” means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in division (c)(3)A. of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE . A concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER.  An outdoor performing arts center
that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (c)(3)B.
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         B.   As used in division (c)(5) of this section, “orchestral
performance” has the same meaning as in division (c)(3)B. of this section.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         B.   As used in division (c)(6)A. of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY.  An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT.  A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Division (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to do
either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the motor vehicle is stationary and is not being operated in a lane of
vehicular travel or unless the possession is otherwise authorized under
division (d) or (e) of this section.
         C.   As used in division (c)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         B.   As used in division (c)(8) of this section, “market” means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (f)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, “commercial quadricycle” means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (g) of this section, “market” means an
establishment that:
         A.   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         B.   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         C.   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
§ 529.08  HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This rule shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-l, A-2, B-l, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-l, C-2, C-2X, D-l, D-2, D-2X,
D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5G, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-l, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, G or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of one a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquid shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5I, D-5J, or D-7 permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (b) above,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(OAC 4301:1-1-49)
§ 529.09  TAKING BEER OR LIQUOR INTO PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall take any beer or intoxicating liquor into or upon any
municipal property, park, public building, public bath house, public dance
hall, school property or other place where the public is permitted to assemble
in the city.
§ 529.10  SELLING, GIVING OR DRINKING BEER OR LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall sell, give away or drink any beer or intoxicating liquor
upon any street, sidewalk or other public area in the city.
§ 529.11  BOTTLE CLUBS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person, club, organization, association or company shall:
      (1)   Keep, set up, maintain or operate any place, structure, building or
conveyance for the purpose of providing a storage area wherein members, their
guests or other persons are allowed to keep and maintain, for the purpose of
consumption therein, beer and intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Occupy any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose
of providing a storage area wherein members, guests or other persons are
allowed to keep and maintain, for the purposes of consumption therein, beer and
intoxicating liquors;
      (3)   Receive, or offer or agree to receive, any person into such place,
structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of allowing such person to
consume or store liquors or beer therein, or permit any person to remain there
for such purpose; or
      (4)   Reside in, enter or remain in any place, structure or building, or
enter or remain in any conveyance for the purpose of storing or consuming beer
or intoxicating liquors therein.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any premises being operated under the
authority of a license issued by the state’s Department of Liquor Control.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
529.99
§ 529.12  MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO PERMIT CONSUMPTION ON CITY PROPERTY.
   The Mayor hereby is authorized to permit the consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Civic Center, the Helen S. Brown
Senior Citizen Center and other properties owned by the city for such events
and pursuant to such requirements as he or she shall determine and upon
notification to Council; provided that no such permission shall be given in
connection with any event that has not obtained the requisite permit, if any,
from the state’s Division of Liquor Control and made provisions for security
that is acceptable to the Chief of the Department of Police.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 6-4-2002)
§ 529.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 533:  OBSCENITY AND SEX OFFENSES
Section
533.01   Definitions
533.02   Presumption of knowledge; actual notice and defense
533.03   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
533.04   Sexual imposition
533.05   Importuning
533.06   Voyeurism
533.07   Public indecency
533.08   Procuring
533.09   Soliciting
533.091   Loitering for the purpose of solicitation
533.10   Prostitution
533.11   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
533.12   Pandering obscenity
533.13   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
533.14   Pandering material involving a minor; illegal use of minor
533.15   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
533.16   Residency restrictions for sex offenders
533.17   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
533.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Complicity, see §
501.10
   Criminal trespass, see §
541.05
   Offensive conduct, see §
509.03
   Telephone harassment, see §
537.10
§ 533.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.  That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal display
or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer hard disk,
computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or similar data storage
device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE.  Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.  Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT.  Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.  The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that the person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 533.02  PRESUMPTION OF KNOWLEDGE; ACTUAL NOTICE AND DEFENSE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by §
533.11 is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of the material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which the notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. This notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of the notice.
   (c)   Section
533.11 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
   (d)   (1)   The provisions of §§
533.11,
533.15 and
533.13(a) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (d)(1) above does not apply to a person who conspires with
an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing distribution of material
in violation of §§
533.11,
533.15 or
533.13 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (d)(1) above does not apply to a person who provides
access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §§
533.11,
533.15 or
533.13 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §§
533.11,
533.15 or
533.13 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §§
533.11 or
533.15 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 533.03  UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (a)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3) below, if the
offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 533.04  SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (a)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (b)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 533.05  IMPORTUNING.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 533.05 has been deleted from the codified
ordinances. Section 533.05 was identical to Ohio R.C. 2907.07(B) which the Ohio
Supreme Court held to be unconstitutional in State v. Thompson, 95 Ohio St. 3rd
264 (2002).)
§ 533.06  VOYEURISM.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (b)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph or otherwise record the other
person in a state of nudity.
   (c)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (d)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (a) above is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (d) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (c) above is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 533.07  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation; and/or
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation; and/or
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5)
below.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), a violation
of division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree or, if
any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct
was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person
who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person
who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of divisions (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of divisions (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of
the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(4), a violation
of divisions (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of divisions (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) above is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
divisions (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(5), a violation
of division (b)(4) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(4) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child- victim offender for a violation of division (b)(4) of this
section:
         A.   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         B.   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person and
the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child- victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (e)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 533.08  PROCURING.
   (a)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (b)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized, or otherwise involved in
a violation of division (a)(2) above is under 18 years of age at the time of
the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates division (a)(2)
above knows the prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual
activity for hire in premises used in violation of division (b) above is under
18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (b) above knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
§ 533.09  SOLICITING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall solicit another who is 18 years of age or older
to engage with the other person in sexual activity for hire.
      (2)   No person shall solicit another to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire if the other person is 16 or 17 years of age and the
offender knows that the other person is 16 or 17 years of age or is reckless in
that regard.
      (3)   No person shall solicit another to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire if either of the following applies:
         A.   The other person is less than 16 years of age, whether or not the
offender knows the age of the other person.
         B.   The other person is a person with a developmental disability and
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe the other person is a
person with a developmental disability.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of soliciting. A
violation of division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree. A
violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) above or an attempt to commit a violation of division (a) above
and if the person, in committing or attempting to commit the violation, was in,
was on or used a motor vehicle, the court, in addition to or independent of all
other penalties imposed for the violation, may impose upon the offender a class
six suspension of the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). In lieu of imposing
upon the offender the class six suspension, the court instead may require the
offender to perform community service for a number of hours determined by the
court.
   (c)   As used in division (a) above:
      (1)   PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY.  Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
      (2)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.  Means an implicit or explicit agreement
to provide sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person
engaging in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to
any person associated with either such person.
(R.C. § 2907.24(A), (C)(1), (D), (E))
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §
2907.24(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 533.091  LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF SOLICITATION.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PANDERER.  A person who, within two years
previous to the date of arrest for a violation of this section, has, within the
knowledge of the arresting officer been convicted of violating any ordinance of
the city or statute of the state defining and punishing acts of soliciting,
committing, or offering or agreeing to commit prostitution.
      (2)   LOITERING.  Remaining idle in essentially one place and includes
the concepts of spending time idly, loafing, or walking about aimlessly.
      (3)   PUBLIC PLACE.  An area, either publicly owned or to which the
public has access, where offenses relating to sexual conduct are known to have
been committed.
      (4)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY . Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both, as
defined in §
533.01.
   (b)   No person shall:
      (1)   Loiter or remain in a public place for the purpose of engaging in
or soliciting another person to engage in sexual activity for hire. The
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such purpose is
manifested are: that such person is a known prostitute or panderer, repeatedly
beckons to, stops or attempts to stop passers-by, or engages passers-by in
conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators
by hailing, waving of arms or any other bodily gesture; or
      (2)   Loiter or remain in or about the area of a school, college or
university, not having any reason or relationship involving custody of or
responsibility for a pupil or student, or any other specific, legitimate reason
for being there, and not having written permission from anyone authorized to
grant the same.
   (c)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this section unless the
arresting officer, by direct demand, first affords such person an opportunity
to explain such conduct.
   (d)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section if it
appears at trial that the explanation rendered pursuant to division (c) above
was true and disclosed a lawful purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 54-03, passed 4-15-2003)  Penalty, see §
533.99
§ 533.10  PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §
2907.25(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 533.11  DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide,
exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) above, mistake of age is not
a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
§ 533.12  PANDERING OBSCENITY.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 533.12 which was derived from Ohio R.C. 2907.32 has
been removed from the codified ordinances. By Am. Sub. Senate Bill 2, effective
July 1, 1996, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.32 has been reclassified as a
felony offense. Therefore each charge for pandering obscenity should now be
filed under Ohio R.C. 2907.32.)
§ 533.13  DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (b) above shall be adjudged an unruly child, with the
disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
§ 533.14  PANDERING MATERIAL INVOLVING A MINOR; ILLEGAL USE OF MINOR.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 533.14 which was derived from Ohio R.C. 2907.322
and 2907.323 has been removed from the codified ordinances. By Am. Sub. Senate
Bill 2, effective July 1, 1996, all violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.322 and
2907.323 have been reclassified as felony offenses. Therefore each charge of
pandering material involving a minor or illegal use of minor should now be
filed under Ohio R.C. 2907.322 or 2907.323.)
§ 533.15  DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of division (a) above if the material in
question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar devices
that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the material in
question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the material in
question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that is harmful to
juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
§ 533.16  RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS FOR SEX OFFENDERS.
   (a)   No person who is convicted of, is found guilty or pleads guilty to a
felonious sexually oriented offense or a felonious child-victim oriented
offense after the effective date hereof shall establish residency, or shall
occupy residential premises within 1,000 feet of any school premises, preschool
or child day-care center premises.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. Each day that a violation of division (a) above occurs shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
5104.01.
      (2)   PRESCHOOL.  Any public or private institution or center that
provides early childhood instructional or educational services to children who
are at least three years of age but less than six years of age and who are not
enrolled in or are not eligible to be enrolled in kindergarten, whether or not
those services are provided in a child day-care setting. PRESCHOOL does not
include any place that is the permanent residences of the person who is
providing the early childhood instructional or educational services to the
children described in this definition.
      (3)   PRESCHOOL OR CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER PREMISES.  All of the following:
         A.   Any building in which any preschool or child day-care center
activities are conducted if the building has signage that indicates that the
building houses a preschool or child day-care center, is clearly visible and
discernable without obstruction, and meets any local zoning ordinances which
may apply;
         B.   The parcel of real property on which a preschool or child day-
care center is situated if the parcel of real property has signage that
indicates that a preschool or child day-care center is situated on the parcel,
is clearly visible and discernable without obstruction, and meets any local
zoning ordinances which may apply; and
         C.   Any grounds, play areas, and other facilities of a preschool or
child day-care center that are regularly used by the children served by the
preschool.
   (d)   Except for the provisions of §
1350.06 of the codified ordinances entitled “Eviction of tenant allowing sex or
child-victim offenders to occupy premises near school”, to the extent that a
person described in division (a) above has entered into a rental or lease
agreement prior to the effective date of this section, then the prohibition on
residing within 1,000 feet of certain institutions shall not apply to such
person until the termination or expiration of such rental or lease agreement,
and no such rental or lease agreement shall be renewed beyond its term that
expires after the effective date hereof. Nothing provided in this division (d)
shall be constituted to limit, abrogate or diminish any other lawful remedy or
action as set forth in Ohio R.C. 2950.034 or any other remedies provided by
law.
(R.C. § 2950.034)  (Ord. 46-11, passed 12-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
533.99
§ 533.17  NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE.  Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE.  Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE.  Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE.  Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER.  Means a provider of internet service, including all
of the following:
         A.   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         B.   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         C.   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. § 4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE.  Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT.  Means any of the following:
         A.   Sexual activity;
         B.   Masturbation;
         C.   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         D.   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (d)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (e)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (f)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (f)(1)B., (f)
(1)C., or (f)(1)D. of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state or
local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state or local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual
images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         D.   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         A.   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         B.   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (g)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 533.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general code penalty.
   (b)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (c)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that
section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the
duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
CHAPTER 537:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
537.01   Negligent homicide
537.02   Vehicular homicide and manslaughter; vehicular assault
537.021   Vehicular assault in a construction zone
537.03   Assault
537.04   Negligent assault
537.05   Aggravated menacing
537.051   Menacing by stalking
537.06   Menacing
537.07   Endangering children
537.08   Unlawful restraint
537.09   Coercion
537.10   Telecommunication harassment
537.11   Threatening or harassing telephone calls
537.12   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
537.13   Adultering of or furnishing adulterated food or confection
537.14   Domestic violence
537.15   Temporary protection order
537.16   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products
537.17   Criminal child enticement
537.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
537.19   Child stealing
537.20   Nonsupport of dependents
537.21   Interference with custody
537.22   Compulsory school attendance for school age children; parental duty
imposed
537.23   Children suspended or expelled from school to remain under
supervision; parental duties imposed
537.24   Curfew for minors
 
537.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Fighting; provoking violent response, see §
509.03
   Physical harm to persons defined, see §
501.01 (c), (e)
§ 537.01  NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (a)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense,
     see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 537.02  VEHICULAR HOMICIDE AND MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   A.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         C.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Recklessly;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (d) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Negligently;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault
offense. The court shall impose a mandatory jail term on the offender when
required by division (c) of this section.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4); or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section or any traffic- related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, a
class three suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(3); or, if
the offender previously had been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class two
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege as specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6); or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (a)(3)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (d)   Divisions (a)(2)B. and (a)(3)B. of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (a)(1), (a)(2)A., (a)(3)A. or (a)(4) of this section in
that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (e)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory prison term” and “mandatory jail term.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Motor vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         D.   “Reckless operation offense.” A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         E.   “Speeding offense.” A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         F.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense.” A
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         G.   “Traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder
offense.” A violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (f)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (f)(4) of this section.
      (2)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (f)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (f)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (f)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (f)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (f)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (f):
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory jail term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Speeding offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         D.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.” Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (f), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
   (g)   The court imposing a sentence upon an offender for any violation of
this section also shall impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in
division (B) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02 that is equivalent in length to the
suspension required for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 under similar
circumstances.
(R.C. § 4510.07)
Statutory reference:
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05, 4510.10
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 537.021  VEHICULAR ASSAULT IN A CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause serious physical harm to another person or another’s unborn as the
proximate result of committing, while operating or participating in the
operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding
offense. This division applies only if the person to whom the serious physical
harm is caused or to whose unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the
construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the speeding
offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in division
(d) below.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of vehicular assault.
Except as provided in this division, vehicular assault is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Vehicular assault is a felony if, at the time of the offense, the
offender was driving under a suspension imposed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510,
or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall impose
upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in
division (A)(4) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days on
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section
and may impose upon the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to §
501.99.
   (d)   This section does not apply in a particular construction zone unless
signs of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2903.081 are erected in that
construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design specifications
established by the Director of Transportation under Ohio R. C. 5501.27.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (2)   TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER OR ASSAULT OFFENSE.  Has the
same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.06.
      (3)   CONSTRUCTION ZONE.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5501.27.
      (4)   SPEEDING OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.06.
   (f)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of another state or the United States. (R.C. § 2903.08)
§ 537.03  ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (c)   Whoever violates divisions (a) or (b) above is guilty of assault.
Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (d)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
§ 537.04  NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
§ 537.05  AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of that other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated
menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
§ 537.051  MENACING BY STALKING.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   A.   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         B.   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (a)(1)A. above;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (a)
(1)A. above.
         C.   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (a)
(1)A. or (a)(1)B. above.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) above is guilty of menacing by
stalking.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2)B. below, menacing
by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. above, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against the
victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. or (a)
(1)C. above, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message made a
threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. above, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (a)(1)B. or (a)(1)C. above, a third person induced by
the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (a)(1)A. above or
a violation of division (a)(1)C. above based on conduct in violation of
division (a)(1)A. above, the offender had a deadly weapon on or about the
offender’s person or under the offender’s control. This division (a)(2)B.6.
does not apply in determining the penalty for a violation of division (a)(1)B.
above or a violation of division (a)(1)C. above based on conduct in violation
of division (a)(1)B. above.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the order is the
victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. above, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises at
which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. above or an offense committed
under division (a)(1)C. above based on a violation of division (a)(1)B. above,
a third person induced by the offender’s posted message caused serious physical
harm to that premises, that real property or any personal property on that
premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then- present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (a), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM,
AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         B.   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  The singular of emergency facility
personnel as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         C.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  The singular of emergency
medical services personnel as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         D.   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER.  Includes any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) above is committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) above is committed is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         E.   MENTAL DISTRESS.  Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services,
whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         F.   ORGANIZATION.  Includes an entity that is a governmental
employer.
         G.   PATTERN OF CONDUCT.  Two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         H.   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Includes a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) above
is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
         I.   POST A MESSAGE.  Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another or while impersonating
another.
         J.   PUBLIC OFFICIAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         K.   SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         L.   THIRD PERSON.  In relation to conduct as described in division
(a)(1)B. above, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim of the
conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (a) above that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment or other mental health services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in division (a)(4)E.2.
above.
      (6)   A.   Division (a) above does not apply to a person solely because
the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of division (a) above.
         B.   Division (a)(6)A. above does not create an affirmative duty for
any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (a) above except as otherwise
provided by law.
         C.   Division (a)(6)A. above does not apply to a person who conspires
with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing distribution of
material in violation of this division (a) or who knowingly advertises the
availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
   (b)   Protection order. Consult R.C. § 2903.213 for current provisions
regarding protection orders, consent agreements, anti-stalking protection
orders and orders issued by a court of another state.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state.
      (1)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the
following:
         A.   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant
to R.C. § 2919.26 or 3113.31;
         B.   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
         C.   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates this division (c) is guilty of violating a
protection order.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)C. or (c)(2)D.
below, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         C.   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
            1.   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
            2.   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
or 2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
            3.   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
         D.   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         E.   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c)(1)C.
above that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
      (4)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent
agreement was served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the
defendant was shown the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of
either or a judge, magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the
defendant that a protection order or consent agreement had been issued, and
proves that the defendant recklessly violated the terms of the order or
agreement.
      (5)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF
ANOTHER STATE  means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 537.06  MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate family. In
addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family, the
other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are
directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that
employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (b), menacing is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a misdemeanor
of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
§ 537.07  ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection or support under this division when the parent, guardian, custodian
or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical or mental
illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer alone, in
accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (b)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that this conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use or
allow the child to act, model or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter or is nudity-oriented matter.
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 to 4511.197 and
all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, a combination of them or for
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   For the purpose of division (c)(1) above, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
         A.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         B.   VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (d)   (1)   Division (b)(5) above does not apply to any material or
performance that is produced, presented or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (b)(5)
above.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (b)(5) above, the trier of fact may
infer that an actor, model or participant in the material or performance
involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its title, text,
visual representation or otherwise, represents or depicts the actor, model or
participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division and division (b)(5) above, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE and SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         B.   NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER.  Any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         C.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER . Any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation or
bestiality.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (a) or (b)(1) above, endangering
children is one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(1)B., (e)(1)C. or
(e)(1)D., a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
of any offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the
delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in
division (e)(1)C. or (e)(1)D. below, endangering children is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation is a violation of division (a) above and results
in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   If the violation is a violation of division (b)(1) above and
results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering children is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5) or
(b)(6) above, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (c) above, the offender shall be
punished as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C., endangering children
in violation of division (c) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child or
if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense
involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (e)(3)C.
below, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. §§ 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (c) above is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (e)
(3)A., (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C. above or pursuant to any other provision of law and
in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under R.C.
Chapter 4506, Chapter 4509, Chapter 4510 or Chapter 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         E.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (e)(3)A.,
(e)(3)B., (e)(3)C. or (e)(3)D. above or pursuant to any other provision of law
for the violation of division (c) above, if as a part of the same trial or
proceeding the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a separate
charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (c) above, the offender also shall be sentenced in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (f)   (1)   If a person violates division (c) above and if, at the time of
the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in the
motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (c) above for each of the children, but the court may
sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) above but the person is not also convicted of and does not also
plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (c) above, both the following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (c) above shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (f)(2)A.1. above, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation
of division (c) above shall constitute a conviction or plea of guilty to a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
         B.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) above and the person also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the violation of
division (c) above, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (c) above shall not constitute, for the purposes of any provision of
law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a conviction of
or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 537.08  UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 537.09  COERCION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(4) and (a)(5) above shall not be construed to prohibit a
prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith and in the
interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) above that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to the
circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited to
any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      (2)   THREAT.  Includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 537.10  TELECOMMUNICATION HARASSMENT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Fails to identify the caller to the recipient of the
telecommunication and makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, or
abuse, any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates Ohio R.C. 2903.21;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any person at those premises.
   (b)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication, or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunication
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of divisions (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) or (a)(5) or (b)
hereof is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense. Each subsequent
offense is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree for a first offense. For each subsequent offense or if a
violation of division (a)(4) above results in economic harm of $500 or more, a
violation of division (a)(4) above is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this state against
any provider of a telecommunications service or information service, or against
any officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunication service or information
service, for any injury, death, or loss to person or .property that allegedly
arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of
information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court
order that is issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an
alleged violation of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service
or information service, or an officer, employee, or agent of a
telecommunications service or information service, is .immune from any civil or
criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s
provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms
of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution
of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ECONOMIC HARM  means all direct, incidental, and consequential
pecuniary harm suffered by a victim as a result of criminal conduct. ECONOMIC
HARM includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
         A.   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         C.   The overhead costs incurred for the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (2)   CALLER means the person described in division (a) above who makes
or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a telecommunication to
be made from a telecommunications device under that person’s control.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (4)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
   (f)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication call to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 91 Stat. 874 (1977), 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or
the “Telephone Consumer Protection Act”, 105 Stat. 2395 (1991), 47 U.S.C. §
227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 537.11  THREATENING OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near or
in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will be
destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the tele- communication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten or harass another person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)
(7), (a)(8), (a)(9), (a)(10), or (a)(11) or (b) above is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on a first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, which
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(4) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first
offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (a)(4) above results in
economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s provision of information,
facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death or loss to person
or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s
or agent’s provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance
with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation
or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (e)(1) above does not create an affirmative duty for any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise provided
by law.
      (3)   Division (e)(1) above does not apply to a person who conspires with
a person actively involved in the creation or knowing distribution of material
in violation of this section or who knowingly advertises the availability of
material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (f)   Divisions (a)(5) to (a)(11) and (b)(2) above do not apply to a person
who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press association,
news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator, or radio or
television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting, compiling, editing,
or disseminating information for the general public within the scope of the
person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s contractual authority in
that capacity.
   (g)   For the purpose of divisions (a) through (d) above, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (2)   CALLER. The person described in division (a) above who makes or
causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a telecommunication to be
made from a telecommunications device under that person’s control.
      (3)   ECONOMIC HARM. All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         A.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         C.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (4)   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(a)(9) above is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(9) above is
committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      (5)   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE . Means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in division (a)(9) above is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      (6)   SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      (7)   TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (h)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the Telephone
Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 537.12  MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (a)   9-1-1 SYSTEM  means a system through which individuals can request
emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 4931.40)
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of the 9-1-1 system
to report an emergency if he or she knows that no emergency exists.
(R.C. § 128.32)
§ 537.13  ADULTERING OF OR FURNISHING ADULTERATED FOOD OR CONFECTION.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (a)(1) above.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
§ 537.14  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to a family or household member.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family
or household member.
      (3)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (a)(4)B. to
(a)(4)E. below.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C., (a)(4)D. or
(a)(4)E. below, a violation of division (a)(3) is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)D. below, if the
offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211 or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law, and a violation of division (a)(3) is a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
         D.   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more
violations or offenses of the type described in division (a)(4)C. above
involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of the
violations or offenses, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         E.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C. or (a)(4)D.
above, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) above is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or
unit of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money
in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the
person violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent
to this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
      (6)   As used in this section:
         A.   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER . Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or
a former spouse of the offender;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         B.   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE.  A person who is living or has lived
with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
   (b)   Temporary protection order. Consult R.C. § 2919.26 for current
provisions regarding protection orders.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state. See §
537.051(c) for current provisions.
§ 537.15  TEMPORARY PROTECTION ORDER.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2919.26 or 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a protection
order.
      (1)   If the offense involves a violation of divisions (a)(1) or (a)(3)
above, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(1)B. below,
violating a protection order is a misdemeanor.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2903.211 or 2911.211 that
involved the same person who is the subject of the protection order or consent
agreement or previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more
violations of Ohio R.C. 2919.27, violating a protection order is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offense involves a violation of division (a)(2) above, one
of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2)B. below,
violating a protection order is a misdemeanor.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2919.27 or of former Ohio R.C.
2919.27 involving a protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or
2903.214, two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211 that involved the same person who is the subject of the protection
order, or two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2903.214 as it existed prior to
July 1, 1996, violating a protection order is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3) above
that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not comply
with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a protection order
that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or that it
is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265(c).
   (d)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person, including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order
of that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE does not
include an order for support or for custody of a child.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 537.16  ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third
party (other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 18 years of age or
older.
         B.   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
cigarette or any other product or device that consists of or contains nicotine
that can be ingested into the body by any means, including, but not limited to,
chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         C.   CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
         D.   CIGARETTE.  Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         E.   DISTRIBUTE.  Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         F.   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, any electronic
product or device that produces a vapor that delivers nicotine or any other
substance to the person inhaling from the device to simulate smoking and that
is likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic pipe.
            2.   The phrase does not include any item, product, or device
described in division 2. of the definition for “alternative nicotine product”
in this section.
         G.   PROOF OF AGE . Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of
age or older.
         H.   TOBACCO PRODUCT.  Means any product that is made from tobacco,
including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, or snuff.
         I.   VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any child;
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling, or otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person
under 18 years of age is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child with purpose to obtain cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes for that child;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
or
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which children are not generally permitted access; or
         C.   Any other place not identified in division (a)(3)A. or (a)(3)B.
above, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person; and/or
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(a)(2)A. above:
         A.   The child was accompanied by a parent, spouse who is 18 years of
age or older, or legal guardian of the child; or
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a child under division (a)(2)A. above is a parent, spouse who is
18 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the child.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. above for a
person to give or otherwise distribute to a child cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes
while the child is participating in a research protocol if all of the following
apply:
         A.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol;
         B.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol; or
         C.   The child is participating in the research protocol at the
facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)
(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) above is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) above or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)C. above is guilty of permitting
children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, permitting children to
use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (a)(2)C. above or a substantially equivalent state
law or municipal ordinance, permitting children to use cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a child in violation of this section and that are used,
possessed, purchased, or received by a child in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are
subject to seizure and forfeiture as contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (c) below, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         B.   IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52.
         C.   SELLER. A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (a) above.
         D.   TRANSACTION SCAN.  The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         E.   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE.  Any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (b)(2)A. above fails to match the information printed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee of
the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         C.   Division (b)(2)A. above does not preclude a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check the validity
of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip that
may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (b) and division (c) below.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (b)(4)A. above, except for purposes of
division (c) below.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. below.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (c) below or another
section of these codified ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (b) or division (c) below relieves a
seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to comply with
any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale,
giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) above is guilty of
engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (a) above in which the age of the
purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (c)(1) above, the trier
of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (a) above shall
consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and implemented and
that is intended to prevent violations of division (a) above. For purposes of
division (c)(1)C. above, the trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a seller or an agent or employee of a seller to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction scan device does not
excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a seller from exercising reasonable
diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 18 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (c)(1) above is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a Deputy
Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52
shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance
in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (d):
         A.   AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.  A person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in § 5702 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         B.   MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (d) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         B.   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) above.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
§ 537.17  CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (a)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice or lure any child under 14 years of age to
accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or onto
any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity.
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any such person, but at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor’s lawful duties in that capacity.
   (b)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (a) above.
   (c)   No person, for any unlawful purpose other than, or in addition to,
that proscribed by division (a) above, shall engage in any activity described
in division (a) above.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a) above that
the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide emergency situation
or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable belief that it was
necessary to preserve the health, safety or welfare of the child.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a), (b) or (c) above is guilty of criminal
child enticement, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of this section, a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or former R.C. §
2907.12, or R.C. § 2905.01 or 2907.05 when the victim of that prior offense was
under 17 years of age at the time of the offense, criminal child enticement is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   SEXUAL MOTIVATION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      (2)   VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   VESSEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
(R.C. § 2905.05)
§ 537.18  CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DELINQUENT CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      (2)   UNRULY CHILD.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (b)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
§ 537.19  CHILD STEALING.
   (Editor’s note: Former Ohio R.C. 2905.04 from which § 537.19 was derived was
repealed by Senate Bill 2, effective July 1, 1996.)
§ 537.20  NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         A.   Is legally obligated to support; or
         B.   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (b)(1)B. of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (c)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a
child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined in
R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (a) above or a charge of failure to provide
support established by a court order under division (b) above that the accused
was unable to provide adequate support or the established support, but did
provide the support that was within his or her ability and means.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3) above
that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused as
required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (f)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (b) above that the
person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being adequately
supported by someone other than the accused.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) or (b) above is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)(2) or (b) above or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the offender
has failed to provide support under division (a)(2) or (b) above for a total
accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive weeks, whether or not the
26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of division (a)(2) or (b) above is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (a)(2) or (b) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorneys’ fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) above is guilty of contributing to
the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day of a
violation of division (c) above is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 537.21  INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep or harbor a person
identified in division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) below from the parent, guardian
or custodian of the person identified in division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3)
below:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically disabled
child under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill or
an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (b)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department or institution without legal consent.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (a)(1) above that the actor reasonably believed that his or her
conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (a)
above that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or judicial
authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed person came
under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (a)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (a)(1) suffers
physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a)(1)
above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) above is a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (b) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (b) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
§ 537.22  COMPULSORY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE FOR SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN; PARENTAL DUTY
IMPOSED.
   (a)   No child between the ages of six and 17, inclusive, other than a child
that has been suspended or expelled from school, shall be at any public place,
as defined in division (h) below, or any other location within the city, except
in attendance at school between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:45 p.m. during any
school day, unless the child has written proof from school authorities excusing
him or her from attending school at that particular time, or unless the child
is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, or a responsible adult selected
by the parent or legal guardian to supervise the child.
   (b)   Each person, parent or legal guardian of a child between the ages of
six and 17, inclusive, and each person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place shall have a duty to prohibit the child between the
ages of six and 17, inclusive, from behaving contrary to division (a) above or
to otherwise aid or abet such behavior. No person shall negligently fail to
fulfill the duty imposed by this section.
   (c)   It shall be an affirmative defense to divisions (a) and (b) above that
the child, at the time he or she was found at a place other than in school, was
not required by law to be in attendance at school.
   (d)   It shall be an affirmative defense to division (b) above that the
parent or legal guardian initiated the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court
against the child prior to the time that the child was found violating division
(a) above.
   (e)   A police officer or school designee may transport any child found
violating division (a) above to the school the child usually attends, or to any
location designated by the school authorities as a receiving center for such
children, the choice of destination to be made at the discretion of the police
officer or school attendance officer based on proximity of the destination and
other relevant factors, and subject to the need to respond to emergency or
priority calls.
   (f)   Any child who violates division (a) above is an unruly child and is
subject to the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court.
   (g)   Any parent or legal guardian who violates division (b) above is guilty
of negligently failing to supervise a child of compulsory school age, a
misdemeanor. In addition to any other method of enforcement provided for in
these codified ordinances or by statute, this offense may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance with Rule 4.1 of the state’s Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
   (h)   As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE includes any street, sidewalk,
park, cemetery, school yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or
any other place for the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
Any person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place
and who violates division (b) shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
537.99.
(Ord. 80-11, passed 12-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
537.99
§ 537.23  CHILDREN SUSPENDED OR EXPELLED FROM SCHOOL TO REMAIN UNDER
SUPERVISION; PARENTAL DUTIES IMPOSED.
   (a)   If a child is suspended or expelled from school, then each parent or
legal guardian of the child shall have the following duties for the duration of
the suspension or expulsion:
      (1)   The duty to personally supervise the child, or to arrange for a
responsible adult to supervise the child at the times that the child would have
been required to be in attendance at school had he or she not been suspended or
expelled; and
      (2)   The duty to prohibit the child from being at any public place at
the times that the child would have been required to be in attendance at school
had he or she not been suspended or expelled, except in the following
circumstances:
         A.   When the child is accompanied by the parent or legal guardian, or
a responsible adult selected by the parent or legal guardian to supervise the
child;
         B.   When the child is employed pursuant to an age and schooling
certificate issued by the school authorities, during the times that the child
is actually on the job or travelling directly to or from the job site;
         C.   When the child is on an emergency errand; or
         D.   When the child has been directed by the parent or legal guardian
to engage in a specific activity or to carry out express instructions, during
the times that the child is actually engaged in fulfilling those directions or
instructions.
   (b)   No child that has been suspended or expelled from school shall fail to
comply with supervision provided or arranged by a parent or legal guardian
pursuant to division (a)(1) above.
   (c)   No child that has been suspended or expelled from school shall be in
any public place at the times that he or she would been required to be in
attendance at school had he or she not been suspended or expelled, except in
the circumstances described in divisions (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)C. or (a)
(2)D.
   (d)   A police officer or school attendance officer may transport any child
found violating division (a) above to the child’s residence and may release the
child to the school the child usually attends, or to any location designated by
the school authorities as a receiving center for such children, the choice of
destination to be made at the discretion of the police officer or school
attendance officer based on proximity of the destination and other relevant
factors, and subject to the need to respond to emergency or priority calls.
   (e)   Any child that violates divisions (b) or (c) above is an unruly child
and is subject to the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court.
   (f)   Any person that negligently fails to fulfill the duty imposed by
division (a) above is guilty of negligently failing to supervise a suspended or
expelled child, a misdemeanor. In addition to any other means of enforcement
provided for in these codified ordinances or by statute, this offense may be
enforced by the issuance of a citation in accordance with Rule 4.1 of the
state’s Rules of Criminal Procedure.
   (g)   As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE includes any street, sidewalk,
park, cemetery, school yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or
any other place for the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
(Ord. 113-94, passed 11-29-1994)
§ 537.24  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (a)   No child under the age of 18 years shall be on the streets or
sidewalks of the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day, local time, unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (b)   No parent, guardian or other person having the care, control or
custody of a minor child under the age of 18 years shall fail to keep such
child off the streets or sidewalks of the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, local time, unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (c)   No adult person shall be in the company of any child under the age of
18 years on the streets or sidewalks of the city between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, local time, unless such adult person
has the permission from the parent or guardian to be in the company of such
child during such hours.
(Ord. 55-03, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 537.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of §
537.22, with the exception of §
537.22(f), shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (c)   Any person violating any provision of §
537.23, with the exception of §
537.23(f), shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
537.24 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 113-94, passed 11-29-1994; Ord. 80-11, passed 12-6-2011; Ord. 55-03,
passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 541:  PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
541.01   Determining property value in arson
541.02   Arson
541.03   Criminal damaging or endangering
541.04   Criminal mischief, damage to city property
541.05   Criminal trespass
541.051   Aggravated trespass
541.06   Destruction of shrubs, trees or crops
541.07   Desecration
541.08   Ethnic intimidation
541.09   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
541.10   Trespass on a place of public amusement
 
541.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Damage to sidewalks, see §
521.04
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see Ohio R.C.
3109.09
   Physical harm to property defined, see §
501.01(d), (f)
   Reimbursement for investigation or prosecution costs, see §
501.99(a)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Vehicle trespass, see §
545.06
§ 541.01  DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of § 642.06(a)(1)
or (b)(1):
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) above, and the
physical harm is such that the property can be restored substantially to its
former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is the reasonable cost
of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) above, and the
physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored substantially to its
former condition, the value of the property, in the case of personal property,
is the cost of replacing the property with new property of like kind and
quality, and in the case of real property or real property fixtures, is the
difference in the fair market value of the property immediately before and
immediately after the offense.
   (b)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.61.
   (c)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C. §
2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
§ 541.02  ARSON.
   (a)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (b)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1)
or (b)(2) above that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(3)
above that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the state,
or the political subdivision.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1) or (b)(1) above is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2)B. below, a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b)
(2) or (b)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.28
§ 541.03  CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (a)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         A.   Knowingly, by any means; or
         B.   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (a) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (a) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (b)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (b), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   ALLEY, STREET,  and  VEHICLE.  Have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 4511.01.
         B.   HIGHWAY.  Any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         C.   VESSEL  and WATERS IN THIS STATE.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway;
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (b) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (b) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (b) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
§ 541.04  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with the property of another;
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land; or
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, all as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.01, knowingly do
any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means, including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program; or
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
   (b)   As used in this section, SAFETY DEVICE means any fire extinguisher,
fire hose or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit or emergency escape
equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life preserver or life boat or
raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign or notice intended to warn of
danger or emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard
railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad
grade crossing sign, signal or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or
any other device, apparatus or equipment intended for protecting or preserving
the safety of persons or property.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
   (d)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or by carelessness or
negligence destroy or damage any property belonging to the city.
(Ord. 6540, passed 12-26-1973)  Penalty, see §
541.99
§ 541.05  CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows he or she is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access; or
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the
agent or servant of either.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public agency.
   (c)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved when such
authorization was secured by deception.
   (d)   No person shall trespass, loiter or remain in the building or upon the
grounds of any school, in violation of the rules and regulations of the Board
of Education or other authority of the school district in which such school is
located.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
   (f)   As used in this section, LAND or PREMISES includes any land, building,
structure or place belonging to, controlled by or in custody of another, and
any separate enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(R.C. § 2911.21)  (Ord. 6035, passed 10-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
541.99
§ 541.051  AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of another
with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor, the
elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or causing
another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to him or
her.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 541.06  DESTRUCTION OF SHRUBS, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (c) below, whoever
violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 541.07  DESECRATION.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 541.08  ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (a)   No person shall violate Ohio R.C. 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, 2909.07
or 2917.21(A)(3) to (5) or §§
537.05,
537.06,
537.10(a)(3) to (5),
541.03 or
541.04 of the general offenses code by reason of the race, color, religion or
national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 541.09  CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (a)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         A.   Knowingly, by any means; or
         B.   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (a) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (a) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (b)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (b), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   ALLEY, STREET,  and  VEHICLE.  Have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 4511.01.
         B.   HIGHWAY.  Any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         C.   VESSEL  and WATERS IN THIS STATE.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway;
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (b) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (b) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (b) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 541.10  TRESPASS ON A PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a stadium,
theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or remain
on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a result of
that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of he or she live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (d)(1)
below that the general public is restricted from access to that restricted
portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a place of
public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
   (c)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
subsection does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of
force beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public
amusement, an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or
participant at a place of public amusement.
   (d)   (1)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted from
access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written notice
of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed written
notice is posted or exhibited as described in this subsection, regarding a
portion, of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
         A.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in writing,
that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is restricted;
         B.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the public
place of amusement is restricted.
      (2)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (d)(1) above, the
municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (b) above,
is not required to prove that the defendant received actual notice that the
general public is restricted from access to a portion of a place of public
amusement.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) above is guilty of criminal
trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty, or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (e)(1) above, a
court may require an offender who violates this section to perform not less
than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
§ 541.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 543:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
543.01   Sidewalk cleanliness; snow removal
543.02   Barricades and warning lights
543.03   Sidewalk safety and protection
 
543.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Assessments for cleaning sidewalks, see CHTR.
Sec. 71
   Littering, see
Ch. 527
   Sidewalk construction, repair and removal, see
Ch. 903
§ 543.01  SIDEWALK CLEANLINESS; SNOW REMOVAL.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of any property abutting a public street shall
fail to keep the sidewalks adjacent to such property clean and free of all
dirt, mud, earth or similar debris or obstruction, or fail to remove ice and
snow from such sidewalks within a reasonable time. Such reasonable time will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of the ice or snow storm.
   (b)   If it shall be impossible to remove all snow or ice from any such
sidewalks, then such person shall cover such snow or ice as shall remain with
ashes or sand or other substance, so as to render travel thereon safe and
convenient until such time as it is possible to entirely remove the snow or
ice. If the owner or occupant of such property fails to comply with the
foregoing provisions, the city may then clean the sidewalks and assess the
costs against the owner or occupant as provided by law.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
543.99
§ 543.02  BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property any excavation or structure which is in the process of
construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same is
adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices or
lights at night, so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
543.99
§ 543.03  SIDEWALK SAFETY AND PROTECTION.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
other public property any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles
which may damage or injure any person or animal.
   (b)   No person shall unload upon or transport any heavy merchandise, goods,
material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first placing
some sufficient protection over the sidewalk and curb to protect against damage
or injury.
   (c)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute, elevator or
lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous condition.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
543.99
§ 543.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 545:  THEFT AND FRAUD
Section
545.01   Definitions
545.02   Determining property value in theft offense
545.03   Property exceptions as felony offense
545.04   Detention of shoplifters; rights of museums and libraries
545.05   Petty theft
545.06   Unauthorized use of a vehicle; vehicle trespass
545.07   Insurance fraud
545.08   Unauthorized use of property
545.09   Passing bad checks
545.10   Misuse of credit cards
545.11   Making or using slugs
545.12   Tampering with coin machines
545.13   Criminal simulation
545.14   Tampering with records
545.15   Securing writings by deception
545.16   Personating an officer
545.17   Defrauding creditors
545.18   Receiving stolen property
545.19   Possession of criminal tools
545.20   Forgery of identification cards
545.21   Ticket scalping
 
545.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Cheating, see §
517.05
   Falsification, see §
525.02
   Impersonating a public servant, see §
525.03
   Property defined, see §
501.01(j)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 545.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA.  Is a compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described in this subsection.
ANHYDROUS AMMONIA  is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3).
ANHYDROUS AMMONIA by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which
is approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG . Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE . Any services provided by or through the
facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE . Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of
the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin, bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program or communication facilities that are connected or related, in
a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER NETWORK.  A set of related and remotely connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM.  An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that when executed by a computer cause the computer to process data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM.  A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE includes,
but is not limited to, a clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone,
or tumbler microchip; a wireless scanning device capable of acquiring,
intercepting, receiving, or otherwise facilitating the use of
telecommunications service or information service without immediate detection;
or a device, equipment, hardware, or software designed for, or capable of,
altering or changing the electronic serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREDIT CARD.  Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine or a cash
dispensing machine.
   DANGEROUS DRUG.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
For purposes of §
545.07, DATA has the additional meaning set forth in division (a) of that
section.
   DECEPTION. Knowingly deceiving another or causing another to be deceived, by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act or
omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   Withhold property of another permanently, or for such period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   Dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner will
recover it;
      (3)   Accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unfit to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON.  A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER.  Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728,15
U.S.C.A. 1693a, as amended.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.  Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS.  To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system or computer network.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to subsection (bb)(2) hereof, the offering of a capability
for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving,
utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications, including,
but not limited to, electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE  does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in subsection (bb)(l) hereof for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE.  Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.321.
   RENTED PROPERTY.  Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property, within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration generally is determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Include labor, personal services, professional services, public
utility services, common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment and cable television services.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill of token made for that purpose.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence of intelligence or any nature over any communications system by any
method, including, but not limited to, a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital, or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including, but not limited to, a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.  The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of. telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12,
2911.13, 2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11,
2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42 to 2913.45,
2913.47, 2913.48, 2913.51, 2915.05, 2915.06 or 2921.41.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in subsection (k)(l) hereof or a violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.41,
2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any
offense under divisions (1), (2) or (3) hereof.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written, typewritten
or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge, trademark,
label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or identification.
(R.C. § 2913.01)
§ 545.02  DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), 2913.02, 2913.03 or 2913.04,
2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the offender in the
offender’s same employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those
offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a series of offenses under
R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or
2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an
active duty service member, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
to any of these offenses, is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses shall
be tried as a single offense. The value of the property or services involved in
the series of offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by
R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved
in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
2913.02, 2913.03 or 2913.04, 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or 2913.31 or 2913.43,
whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving a
victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of violations of,
attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in
violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed against one
victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active duty
service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the property or
services involved for the purpose of determining the value as required by R.C.
§ 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in
all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) above, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense
in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the offender,
within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or violations
of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same employment,
capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (b)(1) or (b)(3)
above, or committed one or more theft offenses that involve a common course of
conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or course of conduct as
described in division (b)(2) above. While it is not necessary to separately
allege and prove each offense in the series in order to prosecute a single
offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) above, it remains necessary in
prosecuting them as a single offense to prove the aggregate value of the
property or services in order to meet the requisite statutory offense level
sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount which would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (c)(1) above, and which retains substantial utility for its
purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing the
property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (c)(1) or (c)(2) above, and the value of services, is the fair
market value of the property or services. As used in this section, FAIR MARKET
VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a seller would
accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to buy and
the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all facts
material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 545.03  PROPERTY EXCEPTIONS AS FELONY OFFENSE.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender has previously been convicted of a theft offense, the provisions
of §§
545.05 or
545.18 do not apply if the property involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A firearm or dangerous ordnance as defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11;
   (d)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by Ohio
R.C. 4503.22, a temporary license placard or windshield sticker as prescribed
by Ohio R.C. 4503.182, or any comparable license plate, placard or sticker as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (e)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by Ohio R.C. 4505.07;
   (f)   A blank form for any license listed in Ohio R.C. 4507.01(A).
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 545.04  DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS; RIGHTS OF MUSEUMS AND LIBRARIES.
   (a)   A merchant, or his or her employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that items offered for sale by a mercantile establishment have been
unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in division (c)
below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time
within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (b)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (c) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has
either:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (c)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to division (b) above or a merchant or his or her employee
or agent pursuant to division (a) above may detain another person for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest.
   (d)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, or the merchant or his or her employee or agent acting under
divisions (a) or (b) above shall not search the person, search or seize any
property belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use
undue restraint upon the person detained.
   (e)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that he or
she has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in divisions
(b)(1) or (b)(2) above or that he or she has probable cause to believe has
committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment. An arrest under
this division shall be made within a reasonable time after the commission of
the act or unlawful taking.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION means any public or private building,
structure or shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices,
records, manuscripts or items of public interest, which historical materials
are stored to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to
disseminate the information contained in the materials, or to make the
materials available for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons
who have a particular interest in, use for or knowledge concerning the
materials.
      (2)   MUSEUM  means any public or private non-profit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
§ 545.05  PETTY THEFT.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of petty theft, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Petty theft is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if:
      (1)   The value of the property or services stolen is $500 or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult,
or
      (3)   The property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, or
      (4)   The property stolen is a motor vehicle.
      (5)   The property stolen is any dangerous drug.
      (6)   The property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance dog
and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police dog
or horse or an assistance dog.
      (7)   The property stolen is anhydrous ammonia.
   (c)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) above, if the
offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to leave the
premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail sale
without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed into
the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court may do
one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (c)(2) below applies, suspend for not more than six
months the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (c)(1)
above, impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or
privilege from the range specified in Ohio R. C. 4510.02(A) (7), provided that
the suspension shall be for at least six months.
   (d)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (c) above may grant the offender
limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
§ 545.06  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state or keep
possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (c)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), a violation
of division (a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of
the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim incurs a
loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a) above is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) above is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
§ 545.07  INSURANCE FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   DATA . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
      (2)   DECEPTIVE.  A statement, in whole or in part, would cause another
to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation, withholds
information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other conduct,
act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression, including
but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
      (3)   INSURER.  Any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
      (4)   POLICY.  A policy, certificate, contract or plan that is issued by
an insurer.
      (5)   STATEMENT.  Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for insurance,
a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive;
      (2)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is $1,000
or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (d)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or modify R.C.
§ 2317.02(A).
(R.C. § 2913.47)
§ 545.08  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   The affirmative defenses contained in §
545.06(c) are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of
property. Except as provided in division (d) below, unauthorized use of
property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Unauthorized
use of property is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law
if:
      (1)   Unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
and if the value of the property is $500 or more; or
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
§ 545.09  PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHECK . Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         A.   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or similar
negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         B.   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check or any form of
automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   ISSUE A CHECK.  Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (d)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a
check, bill of exchange or other draft is presumed to have the purpose to
defraud if the drawer fails to comply with R.C. § 1349.16 by doing any of the
following when opening a checking account intended for personal, family, or
household purposes at a financial institution:
      (1)   Falsely stating that he or she has not been issued a valid driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card issued under R.C. §
4507.50;
      (2)   Furnishing the license or card, or another identification document
that contains false information;
      (3)   Making a false statement with respect to the drawer’s current
address or any additional relevant information reasonably required by the
financial institution.
   (e)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (f)
below, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable instruments that
the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or transferred in
violation of division (b) above within a period of 180 consecutive days.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 545.10  MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) below, a violation
of division (a), (b)(1) or (c) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (d)(3)
below, a violation of division (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)(4) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the property and
services involved in one or more violations of division (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)
(4) above which violations involve one or more credit card accounts and occur
within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on the date of the first
violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2)
above, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 545.11  MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 545.12  TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 545.13  CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter or counterfeit
any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control
Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently cause to
be made, simulated, forged, altered or counterfeited any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap
prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (a)(1), (a)(2) or
(a)(3) above.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 545.14  TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (a)(1) above.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) below, if the offense does
not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is whichever of
the following is applicable:
         A.   If division (b)(1)B. below does not apply, it is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
         B.   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) below, if the offense
involves a violation of division (a) above involving data or computer software,
tampering with records is whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2)B. below, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 545.15  SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 545.16  PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator or agent of any governmental agency.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
§ 545.17  DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 545.18  RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (b)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 545.19  POSSESSION OF CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under the person’s control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima-facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
of parts for making dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials, or parts are intended for
legitimate use;
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use;
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
If the circumstances indicate that the substance, device, instrument, or
article involved in the offense was intended for use in the commission of a
felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 545.20  FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (b)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a) above or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing forged
identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in addition, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)   If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A), (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 545.21  TICKET SCALPING.
   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, any ticket or tickets of admission
to any theatrical or other exhibition to be given within the city for a sum
exceeding the price of admission advertised for or charged by the owner or
manager of such exhibition.
(Ord. 6010, passed 7-29-1969)  Penalty, see §
545.99
§ 545.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.)
CHAPTER 549:  WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
549.01   Definitions
549.02   Carrying concealed weapons
549.03   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
549.04   Using weapons while intoxicated
549.05   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
549.06   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
549.07   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
549.08   Unlawful transactions in weapons
549.09   Underage purchase of a firearm or handgun
549.10   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
549.11   Discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited premises
549.12   Fireworks
549.13   Endangering aircraft and airport operations
549.14   Possessing criminal tools
549.15   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
549.16   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
549.17   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
541.02
   Definitions generally, see §
501.01
Statutory reference:
   Prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives in riot areas, see R.C. §
3761.16
§ 549.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER.  The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number.”
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM.  Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE.  A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         A.   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife.
         B.   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         C.   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite,
pecretol, cyclotol and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives;
dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate,
liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder and other blasting agents;
and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining,
quarrying, excavating or demolitions.
         D.   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         E.   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         F.   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
         G.   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
      (2)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE  does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         B.   Any pistol, rifle or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         C.   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         D.   Black powder, priming quills and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)C. of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         E.   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot readily
be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio or museum piece.
         F.   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the “Gun Control Act” of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that Act.
   DEADLY WEAPON . Any instrument, device or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried or
used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3 or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. “Explosives” does not include
“fireworks”, as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material
otherwise meeting the definition of EXPLOSIVE set forth in this section that is
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity
described in R.C. § 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance
with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to
the provisions of R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE . Any device designed or specially adapted to cause
physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting
of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. EXPLOSIVE
DEVICE includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device,
any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. FIREARM
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand; or
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE.  Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR.  The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices; or
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm with an
overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun Control Act
of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau
not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26
U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM . Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signalling device or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 549.02  CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (c)(1)B. does not apply
to the person.;
         C.   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         D.   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (e)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)
(6), and (f)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (a) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license, and if
the person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest
the person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished
as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         B.   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         C.   If divisions (f)(2)A. and (f)(2)B. and (f)(6) of this section do
not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (f)(1) or (f)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (b)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (b)(1) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time
of the stop of the offender for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of
the violation, any law enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual
knowledge that the offender has been issued a concealed handgun license,
carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(1) of this section is a
minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun license shall not be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(2) or (b)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         A.   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         B.   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through  County Sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a  courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 549.03  POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (a)   “Detention” and “detention facility” have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2921.01.
   (b)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 549.04  USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (a)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 549.05  IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (e)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (f)   (1)   Divisions (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (f)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         A.   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         B.   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm is
on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(2)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         A.   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(4)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (f)(4)B. of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         A.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person is on or in an all- purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person is on or in an all- purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (g)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (b) or (c) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) or (c)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or
other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (h)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (b), (c)
or (d) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (e) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         B.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (b) or
(c) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (f)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (c)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(d) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (e)(1) or (e)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (e)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(3) or (e)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (e)(3) or
(e)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (b) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (j)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (k)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. The Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit in the
Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is created
by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      TENANT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         A.   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division D. of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         B.   For the purposes of division A.2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         C.   For the purposes of divisions A. and B. of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         D.   UNLOADED  means, with respect to a firearm employing a percussion
cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon is uncapped
or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (l)   Divisions A. and B. of the definition of UNLOADED in division (k) of
this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 549.06  LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   Upon application to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (b) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of the business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (b)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Any other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (c)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (d)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list the restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage or use
of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (e)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (f)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use the dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use the dangerous ordnance only within the
territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (g)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(7) and (A)(8) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 549.07  FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 549.08  UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (a)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section;
      (6)   Manufacture, possess for sale, sell or furnish to any person other
than a law enforcement agency for authorized use in police work, any brass
knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack, sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade
knife, gravity knife or similar weapon;
      (7)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit the identification, license or permit
showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant
to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of the
transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the Sheriff of the
county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (8)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (a)(6) or (a)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. A violation of division (a)(8) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION.  Means information regarding the transfer
of a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER.  Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers
a firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 549.09  UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF A FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (a)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age, if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
§ 549.10  POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) of this section, no person
shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver, pistol or other firearm,
or make use of any sling or arrow, within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (b)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim a
firearm at or toward another or discharge a firearm so pointed or aimed.
   (c)   This section does not extend to cases in which firearms, slings or
arrows are used in self-defense, in the discharge of official duty or in
justifiable homicide.
   (d)   This section does not extend to cases in which BB guns and other air
guns, or slings or arrows, are used in the confines of dwellings, provided the
use is under adult supervision and is approved by the Chief of Police.
   (e)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
§ 549.11  DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM ON OR NEAR PROHIBITED PREMISES.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (b)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (b)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church or inhabited dwelling, the property of another or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (a)(3) of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(a)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
§ 549.12  FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Definitions. Unless otherwise provided, for the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      1.3G FIREWORKS.  Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      1.4G FIREWORKS.  Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
      BOOBY TRAP.  A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends
that has a friction- sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the
ends of the string.
      CIGARETTE LOAD.  A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      DISCHARGE SITE.  An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
      EXPLOSIVE.  Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all
materials that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3
or division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. EXPLOSIVES does not include FIREWORKS as
defined below, or any substance or material otherwise meeting the definition of
EXPLOSIVE set forth in this section that is manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported, stored or used in any activity described in R.C. § 3743.80,
provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable laws,
rules and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of R.C. §
3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
      FIREWORKS INCIDENT.  Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
         A.   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or
other use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
         B.   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable
requirement imposed by this section or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable
rule adopted under this section or R.C. Chapter 3743.
      FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE.  A discharge site or other location at a
fireworks exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an
injury or death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location
where evidence of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a
fireworks incident is found.
      FIREWORKS PLANT.  All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
      HIGHWAY.  Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
      LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
      LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS  or LICENSED EXHIBITOR.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS  or LICENSED MANUFACTURER.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
      LICENSED PREMISES.  The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
      LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS  or LICENSED WHOLESALER.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
      MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from raw materials,
none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
      NOVELTIES  and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
         A.   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user, including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers
and snappers;
         B.   Snakes or glow worms;
         C.   Smoke devices;
         D.   Trick matches.
      PARTY POPPER . A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than
16 milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
      PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from materials all or
part of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include
the mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
      RAILROAD.  Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
      RETAIL SALE  or SELL AT RETAIL.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
      SMOKE DEVICE.  A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      SNAKE  or GLOW WORM.  A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
      SNAPPER.  A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
      STORAGE LOCATION.  A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or 3743.17(G) that
are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail showroom, and which
parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks may use
only for the distribution, possession and storage of fireworks in accordance
with this chapter.
      TRICK MATCH.  A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small
report or a shower of sparks.
      WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser
who intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
      WIRE SPARKLER.  A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
   (b)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall knowingly fail to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.05 or the requirements of R.C. § 3743.06.
      (2)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to maintain
complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. §
3743.07, or to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a
fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08.
      (3)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(1) within
the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(2) until
the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-
hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or
a match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant, except as
smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.06(C).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a fireworks plant.
(R.C. § 3743.60(E) - (J))
   (c)   Wholesaling.
      (1)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall knowingly fail to comply
with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.18 or
the requirements of R.C. § 3743.19.
      (2)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to maintain complete
inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. § 3743.20, or
to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a fireworks plant
or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21.
      (3)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(1) within
the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(2) until
the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-
hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or
a match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks,
except as smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a
wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.19(D).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.61(E) - (J))
   (d)   Purchasing and transporting.
      (1)   No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in
this state shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this state unless the
person complies with R.C. § 3743.44.
      (2)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks
in this state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than
from a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G
fireworks, to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after
the time of their purchase. No such person shall give or sell to any other
person in this state fireworks that the person has acquired in this state.
      (3)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this state unless the person
complies with R.C. § 3743.45.
      (4)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this state under R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the fireworks in
this state other than from a licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler, or
fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport them directly out of this
state within 48 hours after the time of their purchase. No such person shall
give or sell to any other person in this state fireworks that the person has
acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)
   (e)   Prohibited activities by exhibitors.
      (1)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
      (2)   The approval required by division (e)(1) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
      (4)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
      (5)   If the Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit
for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their
designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
      (6)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to person or
property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage
of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death or loss of
persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The Council may
require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance
coverage in amounts greater than those required by this division. The Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this
division or by the Council.
      (7)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
      (8)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
      (9)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
section and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54)
      (10)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
      (11)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
      (12)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use
at a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (13)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with
the conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or
be under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled
substance while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
      (14)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to
assist the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the
employee is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64)
   (f)   Possession, sale, discharge and advertising; falsification.
      (1)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, or as authorized by any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of these statutes,
and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, no person shall discharge,
ignite or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
      (3)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
      (4)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18
years of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales
showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or
shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))
   (g)   Transporting and shipping.
      (1)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
      (2)   As used in this division, “fireworks” includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
      (3)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66)
   (h)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit or apply to the following:
      (1)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals
for marine, aviation or highway use;
      (2)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
      (3)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
      (4)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the Armed Forces of the United States and the militia of
this state of pyrotechnic devices;
      (5)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
      (6)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
      (7)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of wire sparklers;
      (8)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use
an explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
         A.   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
         B.   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
         C.   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
   (i)   Forfeiture and disposal. Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported or used in violation of this section shall be forfeited by the
offender. The Fire Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office
shall dispose of seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C.
§§ 2981.11 to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement
agencies, and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the
loss of or damages to the seized fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.68(B))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this
section, whoever violates any provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(5) of this section
or division (c)(5) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (e)(10) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other penalties that may be
imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under this division and unless the
third sentence of this division applies, the person’s license as an exhibitor
of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended, and
the person is ineligible to apply for either type of license, for a period of
five years. If the violation of division (e)(10) of this section results in
serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm to property, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be revoked, and that person is ineligible to apply for a
license as or to be licensed as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant
exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D))
§ 549.13  ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT AND AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN.  A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE.  Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is actually
being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN.  A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile
not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a
spring.
   (b)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring- operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun or spring- operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (c) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 549.14  POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 549.15  POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (b)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re- enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         A.   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         B.   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         C.   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         D.   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) to (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         C.   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         D.   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (d)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (d)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (d)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (d)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (e)   As used in this section, “object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm” means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A), (B)
§ 549.16  CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (a)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (b)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A.   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee’s residence address to the Sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         B.   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         C.   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if the
licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer approaches,
the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed
handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a concealed
handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply with
lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is stopped
or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any law
enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and before
the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement officer; and
the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp or hold the
loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it
with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of R.C. §
2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee
while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         A.   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         B.   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         C.   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         D.   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303, if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         E.   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in a
locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing the
handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         F.   Any church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         G.   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (b)(2)C. of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         H.   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   A.   Nothing in this division (b) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (b) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         B.   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a civil
action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was
caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, “political subdivision” has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2744.01.
            3.   An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
         C.   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (b)(3)C.2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (b)(3)C. of this section:
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except “residential premises” does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or
operated by a college or university.
               LANDLORD, TENANT , and RENTAL AGREEMENT . Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   A.   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (b).
         C.   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   A.   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (b)(6)C. of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (b)
(6)B. of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (b)(6)C. of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         B.   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service- connected disability, as determined
by the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (b)(6)C. of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(b)(6)B.1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED .”
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (b)(6)B.1. of this section.
         C.   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (b)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (b)(6)B. of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   For the purpose of division (b) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         GOVERNING BODY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE.  Any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a Deputy Registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER.  A person who satisfies all of the
following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD.  An identification card
that is issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section to a person who is
a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION.  Means photographic identification issued
by the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (c)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 549.17  DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number or other
mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed or
obliterated.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (a)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 553:  PROHIBITED REALTY PRACTICES
Section
553.01   Inciting or referring to neighborhood unrest
553.02   Referring to race, color, religion or national origin
553.03   Intimidation or threats
553.04   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
 
553.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ethnic intimidation, see §
541.08
   Fair housing, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4112
   Interfering with civil rights, see §
525.13
§ 553.01  INCITING OR REFERRING TO NEIGHBORHOOD UNREST.
   No person shall incite, arouse or refer to neighborhood unrest, community
tension or racial, religious or nationality change in a neighborhood or on a
particular street for the purpose of inducing or promoting the sale, lease or
other disposition of real property.
(Ord. 5542, passed 3-24-1964)  Penalty, see §
553.99
§ 553.02  REFERRING TO RACE, COLOR, RELIGION OR NATIONAL ORIGIN.
   No person shall promote, influence or attempt to promote or influence a
property owner, occupant or tenant to list for sale, sell, remove from or lease
real property by referring to race, color, religion or national origin of
neighbors, tenants, prospective buyers, tenants or occupants of real property.
(Ord. 5542, passed 3-24-1964)  Penalty, see §
553.99
§ 553.03  INTIMIDATION OR THREATS.
   No person shall resort to or engage in intimidation or threats, in
attempting to influence or induce a property owner or tenant to list for sale,
to sell, to lease or to remove from real property.
(Ord. 5542, passed 3-24-1964)  Penalty, see §
553.99
§ 553.04  RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (c)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (d)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or remain
on the land or premises of a railroad company.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (a), (b), or
(c) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on the land or premises of a railroad company, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (g)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (h)   Whoever violates division (g) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (g) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 553.99  PENALTY.
   (Editor’s note: See §
501.99 for general code penalty.)
CHAPTER 557:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
557.01   Purpose
557.02   Definitions
557.03   Unlawful discriminatory housing practices
557.04   Exemptions
557.05   Law Department; powers; duties; responsibilities
557.051   Discrimination Review Committee; duties; responsibilities
557.06   Complaints
557.07   Investigation of complaints
557.08   Conciliation process
557.09   Hearings
557.10   Hearing decisions
557.11   Injunctive relief
557.12   Remedial actions
557.13   Judicial relief
557.14   Intimidation or interference in housing
557.15   Pattern or practice of discrimination
557.16   Prohibitions against real estate steering
557.17   Additional remedies
557.18   Scope/severability
Cross reference:
   Ethnic intimidation, see §
541.08
   Fair housing, see Ohio R.C. 4112
   Interfering with civil rights, see §
525.13
§ 557.01  PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide, within
constitutional limitations, fair housing throughout the city (hereinafter, the
city), to assure that all persons have full and equal opportunity to consider
all available housing for themselves and their families within the city without
discrimination based on race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation,
national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, Vietnam-era or disabled veteran
status, familial status, marital status or ancestry, and to promote a stable,
racially integrated community.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such persons will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.  Buildings consisting of four or more units,
if such buildings have one or more elevators, and ground floor units in other
buildings consisting of four or more units.
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   Includes, with respect to a person:
         A.   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities, including the functions of caring for one’s self
such as: performing manual tasks; walking; seeing; hearing; speaking;
breathing; learning; and/or working;
         B.   A record of a physical or mental impairment; or
         C.   Being regarded as having a physical or mental impairment.
      (2)   Does not include current, illegal use of, or addiction to, a
controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802.
   DISCRIMINATION REVIEW COMMITTEE.  The Committee of the Law Department
established by §
557.051.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Law Department.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  Refers to the status of:
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with:
         A.   A parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or individuals; or
         B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other persons.
      (2)   Any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal
custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS.  Includes:
      (1)   Housing provided under any state or federal program that the
Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(hereafter HUD) determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Housing intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of
age or older;
      (3)   Housing intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person
55 years or older per unit. The determination as to whether housing qualifies
as housing for older persons under this division shall be consistent with
regulations promulgated by the Secretary of HUD, provided at least the
following factors are present:
         A.   The existence of significant facilities and services specifically
designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons or if the
provision of such facilities and services is not practicable, that such housing
is necessary to provide important housing opportunities for older persons;
         B.   That at least 80% of the units are occupied by at least one
person 55 years of age or older per unit; and
         C.   The publication of, and adherence to, policies and procedures
which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manger to provide housing for
persons 55 years of age or older.
      (4)   Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for
older persons by reason of:
         A.   There being persons residing in such housing as of the date of
enactment of the Fair Housing Act of 1988, being 52 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., who
do not meet the age requirements of division (2) or (3) above; provided that
the new occupants of such housing meet the age requirements of division (2) or
(3) above; or
         B.   There being unoccupied units, provided that such units are
reserved for occupancy by division (2) or (3) above.
   LAW DEPARTMENT. Includes the employees and others affiliated with the Law
Department, including persons and/or agencies contracting with the Law
Department and all persons who have responsibility under this chapter.
   LENDING INSTITUTION.  Any bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company, or other organization or person regularly engaged in the business of
lending money, guaranteeing insurance in connection with the purchase, sale or
rental of dwellings.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy,
receivers, and other organized groups of persons. It also includes, but is not
limited to, any owner, lessor, assignor, builder, manager, broker, salesman,
appraiser, agent, employee, and lending institution.
   PROPERTY. Any building, structure, facility or portion thereof, which is
used, occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied:
      (1)   As the residence, dwelling unit or sleeping place of one or more
individuals, groups or families whether or not living independently of each
other, and includes any housing accommodations held or offered for sale or rent
by a real estate broker, salesman or agent, or by any other person pursuant to
authorization of the owner, by the owner or by such person’s legal
representative;
      (2)   For the purpose of operating a business, an office, a manufactory
or public accommodation; or
      (3)   Any vacant land offered for sale, lease or held for the purpose of
constructing or locating thereon any such building, structure, facility,
business concern or public accommodation.
   PROTECTED GROUP  or PROTECTED CLASS.  Refers to people who are, or may be,
discriminated against on the basis of race, religion, color, sex, sexual
orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, Vietnam-era or
disabled veteran status, familial status, marital status or ancestry.
   PURCHASE. To obtain property through sale.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER.  A real estate agent or salesperson, or a limited real
estate broker or salesperson, as defined in § 4735.01 of the Revised Code.
   RENT  or RENTAL.  To lease, sublease, assign or otherwise grant or obtain
the right to occupy property not owned by the occupant in return for
consideration, or a contract or option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE  or SELL.  To convey, exchange, transfer or assign legal or equitable
title to, or beneficial interest in, property in return for consideration, or a
contract or option to do any of the foregoing.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION.  A person’s actual or perceived homosexuality,
bisexuality or heterosexuality, by orientation or practice.
   SOLICITATION  or SOLICIT.  The mailing or delivery of any printed matter or
any oral communication either in person or by telephone to the owner or
occupant of property by any real estate broker, agent, sales representative or
other person for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Advertising the accomplishments and/or abilities of the real estate
broker, agent, sales representative or other person to sell or rent property;
      (2)   Requesting or suggesting that the owner or occupant list his or her
property for sale or rent; or
      (3)   Offering to purchase or rent the owner’s property.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES.  Any act prohibited by §
557.03, but shall not include special outreach efforts conducted by, or under
the authority of units of local government (including agencies, departments and
commissioners thereof) or non-profit fair housing corporations or agencies to
administer the programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner which affirmatively furthers the policies of this
chapter.
   WATCH AREA.  An area of the city designated by the Law Department exhibiting
certain conditions of change which have historically led to panic selling,
racial change and/or incidents with considerations of the factors listed in §
557.16(b).
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.03  UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory housing practice for any person to:
   (a)   Refuse to sell, transfer, assign, rent, lease, sublease, finance or
negotiate after the making of a bona fide offer, or otherwise deny or make
unavailable, because of membership in a protected class, a property to any
person;
   (b)   Represent to any person, because of membership in a protected class,
that a property is not available for sale, rental, inspection, purchase,
transfer, assignment, lease or sublease when, in fact, it is available;
   (c)   Discriminate against any person in making available such a
transaction, or in the terms or conditions of such a transaction, if such
person’s business includes engaging in residential real estate related
transactions, because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, Vietnam-era or disabled veteran
status, familial status, marital status or ancestry. As used in this section,
the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTION means any of the
following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         A.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining
a dwelling; or
         B.   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of real property;
   (d)   Discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of selling,
renting, transferring, assigning, brokering, leasing or subleasing any
property, or in furnishing facilities, services or privileges in connection
with the ownership, occupancy or use of any property because of membership in a
protected class or because of the racial composition or presence of any other
protected groups in the area in which the dwelling is located;
   (e)   Discriminate against any person in the provision of property and
casualty, including, but not limited to, fire, extended coverage, renter’s or
homeowner’s insurance (“insurance”) or insurance related services because of
membership in a protected class of a current or prospective purchaser, renter
or occupant, or of other residents in the area or community, by any one or more
of the following practices:
      (1)   Making insurance or insurance related services unavailable or
making them available on different terms or conditions;
      (2)   Refusing to sell or renew or by canceling insurance or an insurance
policy;
      (3)   Varying the terms or conditions under which an insurance policy or
insurance related services is available;
      (4)   Establishing different qualifications, requirements or standards
for making insurance or insurance related services available;
      (5)   Offering different service, facilities or privileges in the
provision of insurance or insurance related services;
      (6)   Discouraging potential applicants from applying for insurance,
including, but not limited to, utilizing different sales and marketing
practices, except as provided in §
557.02(s); or
      (7)   Evaluating, settling or paying insurance claims.
   (f)   Refuse to consider the combined income of both husband and wife for
the purpose of extending mortgage credit to a married, couple or either member
thereof;
   (g)   Print, publish or circulate, or cause to be printed, published or
circulated, any statement or advertisement, or make or cause to be made any
written or oral statement relating to the sale, transfer, assignment, rental,
lease, sublease or acquisition of any property or the loan of money, whether or
not secured by mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition, construction,
rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of a property, which indicates any
preference, limitation, specification or discrimination based upon protected
group membership, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation,
specification or discrimination;
   (h)   Include in any sale, transfer, rental, lease or sublease of a property
any restrictive covenant based on protected group membership, or honor or
exercise, or attempt to honor or exercise any such restrictive covenant;
   (i)   Induce or solicit or attempt to induce or solicit, including, but not
limited to, a property listing, sale, rental or transaction by representing
that a change has occurred or may occur with respect to the protected class or
classes of the area in which the property is located, or induce or solicit or
attempt to induce or solicit such listing, sale or transaction by representing
that the actual or anticipated presence of persons of any protected class in
the area will or may have results such as:
      (1)   The lowering of property values;
      (2)   A change in the composition of the area in which the property is
located based upon a protected class or classes;
      (3)   An increase in criminal or anti-social behavior in the area; or
      (4)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
   (j)   Coerce, injure, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of that person’s having exercised
or enjoyed or having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or
enjoyment of any right granted or protected by this section;
   (k)   Discriminate against any person because of protected group status in
appraising the value of any property in connection with the sale, brokering or
rental or because of the composition of the area based upon protected class or
classes;
   (l)   Deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ association or other service
association or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
accommodations or commercial property, or to discriminate against any person in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account
of membership in a protected class;
   (m)   Refuse to permit, at the expense of a disabled person, reasonable
modifications to existing premises occupied or to be occupied by such person,
if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full enjoyment of
the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, a landlord may, where it is
reasonable on a renter’s agreement, which can include the establishment of an
escrow account, to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed prior to the modification, reasonable wear and tear expected;
   (n)   Refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices
or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford a disabled
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling including associated
public and common use areas;
   (o)   Construct covered multi-family dwellings that do not provide for
accessibility and usability for physically disabled persons in compliance with
42 U.S.C. § 3604(f)(3)(c);
   (p)   Discriminate in any manner against any other person because that
person has opposed any unlawful practice defined in this section, or because
that person has made a charge, testified, assisted or participated in any
manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing under §§ 4112.01 to 4112.07
of the Revised Code;
   (q)   Aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by
this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice, or obstruct or prevent
any person from complying with §§ 4112.01 to 4112.11 of the Revised Code, 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., or any order issued pursuant thereto, or attempt to
directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this section to be an
unlawful discriminatory practice.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 557.04  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to:
   (a)   Prohibit a religious or denominational institution, organization,
society or association or non- profit charitable or education organization that
is operated, supervised or controlled by or in connection with a religious
organization, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to persons of the same
religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin, nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes, provides
lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members;
   (b)   Require any person selling or renting property to modify such property
in any way at his or her expense, provided that such person does not refuse to
permit reasonable modifications by a disabled person, which are necessary for
that person to fully enjoy the premises in which he or she resides, when such
modifications are made at the expense of the disabled person, which permission
may be reasonably based on the disabled person’s promise, pursuant to §
557.03(o), to restore the premises to the condition in which it previously
existed before granting permission for such modification, nor shall this
chapter be construed to relieve any disabled person of any obligation generally
imposed on all persons, regardless of disability, in a written lease, rental
agreement or contract of purchase or sale, or to forbid distinctions based on
the inability to fulfill the terms or conditions, including financial
obligations, of the lease, agreement or contract, so long as such distinctions
are not based on the disability, or on the landlord’s refusal to make
reasonable modifications in the lease, agreement or contract conditions for the
purpose of denying a disabled person equal opportunity to the use and enjoyment
of the premises;
   (c)   Prohibit the restriction of a sale or rental of a property on the
basis of disability when such a property is authorized, approved, financed and
subsidized, in whole or in part, for the benefit of disabled persons by a unit
of the local, state or federal government, so long as such restrictions do not
discriminate against an otherwise qualified disabled person;
   (d)   Require that a property be made available to an individual whose
tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others;
   (e)   Prohibit the application of any reasonable local, state or federal
restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a
property;
   (f)   With regard to familial status, apply to properties provided under any
state or federal program, provided that HUD has determined that such program or
housing is exempt, which determination shall be conclusive, or to housing for
older persons; or
   (g)   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of
real property to take into consideration factors other than membership in a
protected class.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.05  LAW DEPARTMENT; POWERS; DUTIES: RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   The Law Department shall have the responsibility to administer the
provisions of this chapter and to adjudicate complaints alleging violations of
any section.
   (b)   The Law Department shall have and may exercise the following powers to
implement the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   To hold adjudicative hearings, make findings of fact, issue orders,
enforce such orders and seek judicial and/or administrative relief with respect
to any such complaints in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, administer oaths,
take sworn testimony and, in connection therewith, to require the production
for examination of any documents relating to any matter under investigation or
in question before the Law Department, and enforce such powers by proper
petition to any court of competent jurisdiction;
      (3)   To adopt such rules and regulations as the Law Department may deem
necessary or desirable for the conduct of its business and to carry out the
purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   To do such other acts as are necessary and proper to perform those
duties with which the Law Department is charged under this chapter, including
the provision of referral services for the community;
      (5)   To collect, analyze and study the results of investigations made
under this chapter and report to the Mayor and City Council on the working of
this chapter for the purposes of advising on and recommending amendments to
this chapter;
      (6)   To conduct a continuing program of education and community
organization throughout the city;
      (7)   To initiate an investigation without the filing of an official
complaint, provided the Law Department elects to proceed based upon reasonable
cause to believe that violations of this chapter are occurring or have
occurred. The Law Department shall have the same powers following this
initiated investigation as it has with an investigation based on the filing of
a complaint;
      (8)   To enter into cooperative agreements with other governmental
agencies to effectuate the purposes of this chapter; or
      (9)   To refer persons allegedly aggrieved by unlawful discriminatory
housing practices to the state’s Civil Rights Commission or other governmental
or private agencies, as appropriate.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.051  DISCRIMINATION REVIEW COMMITTEE; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   There is hereby created a Discrimination Review Committee which shall
consist of five members designated by the Mayor. The Mayor shall further
designate one of the Committee members to serve as chairperson. No person shall
be appointed to the Discrimination Review Committee who has any interest in any
firm, association, company or corporation engaged in the sale or rental of real
estate in the city.
   (b)   The Discrimination Review Committee shall have the responsibility to
hear cases brought before the Law Department and such other duties as may be
set forth in this chapter. The Discrimination Review Committee shall make
recommendations as to findings of fact, as to whether the respondent has
violated §
557.03, and as to remedial actions that may be appropriate under §
557.12.
   (c)   The Law Department shall promulgate appropriate rules and regulations
for the operation of the Discrimination Review Committee.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.06  COMPLAINTS.
   (a)   Any aggrieved person may allege that a violation of §
557.03 has occurred by filing with the Law Department, within one year of the
alleged violation, a sworn, written complaint setting forth his or her
grievance. The complaint shall state the name and address of the aggrieved
party (hereinafter the “complainant”), the name and address of the person(s)
alleged to have committed a violation of §
557.03 (hereinafter the “respondent”), a description and address of the
property involved in the discriminatory incident and the particular facts
thereof and such other information as may be required by the Board. A complaint
may be amended at any time prior to the hearing conducted pursuant to §
557.09, and thereafter only with permission of the Law Department. Upon the
filing of a complaint, the Law Department shall acknowledge the receipt of the
complaint and serve notice thereof to the complainant, which notice shall also
contain information as to the time limits, notice of procedural rights and
obligations and choice of forum provided in this chapter.
   (b)   Within ten days after a complaint has been received by the Law
Department, it shall serve or cause to be served, in person or by certified
mail, a copy of the complaint on the respondent alleged to have committed a
violation of §
557.03. Along with the service of the complaint, the Law Department shall
advise the respondent, in writing, of his or her procedural rights and
obligations under this chapter. The respondent may file a written verified
answer to the complaint with the Law Department within ten days after receipt
of notice of said complaint, and thereafter only with permission of the Law
Department.
   (c)   The Mayor, with the advice of the Director of the Law Department, may
appoint a Fair Housing Administrator within the Law Department. The
Administrator shall have such duties and responsibilities as may be provided by
the Law Department, including, but not limited to, receipt and processing of
complaints on behalf of the Law Department.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.07  INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (a)   Investigations shall be commenced within 30 days after a complaint has
been received. Conciliation, pursuant to §
557.08, shall be attempted beginning with the filing of the complaint and
ending with the filing of a charge or a dismissal of the complaint. If
conciliation has failed and the investigation has been completed, the
Discrimination Review Committee shall determine that:
      (1)   There are reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of §
557.03 has occurred, in which case the Fair Housing Administrator shall issue a
charge stating the facts forming the basis for the finding of reasonable
grounds to believe discrimination occurred or is about to occur under §
557.03. The Fair Housing Administrator shall then forward the complaint to the
Law Department for a hearing, pursuant to §
557.09; or
      (2)   There are no reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of §
557.03 has occurred, in which case the Fair Housing Administrator shall prepare
and issue a written notice of dismissal, within five days of the finding of no
reasonable grounds, by serving a copy of the notice of dismissal by certified
mail on the parties. The notice of dismissal shall advise the complainant of
his or her right to appeal under this section. Within 14 days of receipt of
notice of dismissal, the complainant may request, in writing, reconsideration
by the Discrimination Review Committee of the dismissal. By a majority vote,
the Discrimination Review Committee may affirm or reverse the dismissal. If the
Discrimination Review Committee reverses, it shall refer the complaint to the
Fair Housing Administrator for conciliation and other actions consistent with
this chapter.
   (b)   The Law Department shall complete the investigation within 100 days
after receipt of the complaint, unless impracticable, in which case the Law
Department shall inform, in writing, the complainant and the respondent of the
reasons why the investigation cannot be completed within the time prescribed.
   (c)   The Law Department may be assisted in the investigation by a fair
housing agency or other organization or person under contract with the city.
Upon request of the Law Department, the Executive Director of the Law
Department may assign employees of the Law Department to assist in the
investigation.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.08  CONCILIATION PROCESS.
   (a)   During the period beginning with the filing of such complaint and
ending with the filing of a charge or a dismissal by the Law Department, the
Law Department shall, to the extent feasible, engage in conciliation with
respect to such complaint. As appropriate, the Administrator shall:
      (1)   Notify the complainant and respondent of the time, place and date
of the conciliation conference at least ten days prior thereto, and both
parties shall appear at the conciliation conference in person or by attorney;
and
      (2)   Attempt to resolve the complaint by methods of conferment,
conciliation and persuasion with all interested parties and such
representatives as the conferences shall be informal and made public unless the
parties agree thereto in writing. The terms of conciliation agreed to by the
parties shall be reduced to writing and incorporated into a consent agreement
to be signed by the parties, subject to approval by the Law Department. The
terms of the conciliation agreement shall be made public, unless the
complainant and the respondent agree otherwise and the Law Department
determines that disclosure is not required to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (b)   A conciliation agreement may provide for binding arbitration of the
dispute arising from the complaint. Any such arbitration that results from a
conciliation agreement may award appropriate relief, including monetary relief.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.09  HEARINGS.
   (a)   Within 30 days after the complaint is received by the Law Department
pursuant to §
557.07(a)(1), the Discrimination Review Committee shall, upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties, hold a hearing on the complaint. Parties to
the hearing shall be the complainant and respondent and such other persons as
the Law Department may deem appropriate. The hearing shall be open to the
public. At the time it determines to hold such hearing, the Law Department
shall serve upon the respondent a summons requiring the attendance of named
persons and the production of relevant documents and records.
   (b)   At any time prior to the conclusion of the hearing, the parties may
request the Law Department to issue subpoenas for individuals or documents in
the Law Department’s name. Failure to comply with a summons or subpoena shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. The parties may appear before such
Board in person or by duly authorized representatives and may be represented by
legal counsel. The parties shall have the right to present witnesses and to
cross-examine witnesses, and all testimony and evidence shall be given under
oath or by affirmation.
   (c)   If a charge is issued pursuant to §
557.07 (a)(1), either the complainant or the respondent, in lieu of
participating in the administrative hearing process, as outlined in this
section, may elect to have the case heard in a civil action. Such civil action
shall be maintained on behalf of the aggrieved person at the expense of the Law
Department. Such election must be made within 20 days after the receipt of the
charge.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.10  HEARING DECISIONS.
   (a)   Within 30 days of the close of the hearing, the Discrimination Review
Committee shall deliver its recommendations to the Law Department. The Law
Department shall have 30 days to adopt, reject or amend the recommendations of
the Discrimination Review Committee. The Law Department’s decision shall be
rendered in the form of a written order which shall include findings of fact
and a statement as to whether the respondent has violated §
557.03 and such remedial actions as the Law Department may order pursuant to §
557.13. The order shall be served upon the parties by certified mail within 15
days of the date of the decision. The order shall be available for public
inspection, and a copy shall be provided to any person upon request and payment
of reproduction costs.
   (b)   If the Discrimination Review Committee is unable to make a
recommendation to the Law Department within the prescribed time frame in
division (a) above, the Administrator shall notify the Law Department, the
complainant and the respondent in writing of the reasons for not doing so.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.11  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   At any time after the filing of a complaint referred to in §
557.07, the Law Department may request the city’ s Director of Law to petition
the appropriate court for temporary or preliminary relief pending final
determination of the proceedings under this chapter, or as otherwise necessary
to carry out the purposes of this chapter, including an order or decree
restraining the respondent from doing or causing any act which would render
ineffectual any order or action by the Law Department.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.12  REMEDIAL ACTIONS.
   (a)   If the Law Department finds that the respondent has not violated §
557.03, its order under §
557.10 shall dismiss the complaint.
   (b)   If the Law Department finds that the respondent has violated §
557.03, its order under §
557.10 shall provide for the taking of such remedial action, as it deems
appropriate, which may include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Directing the respondent to cease and desist from violations of §
557.03 and to take such affirmative steps as necessary to effectuate the
purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   Initiating, at the Law Department’s expense, an appropriate court
action for the enforcement of §
557.03, and for such other or further relief as the court may deem appropriate
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, compensatory damages,
punitive damages to the complainant and/or attorneys’ fees and costs incurred
by the complainant and/or the Law Department and/or the city; such court action
shall be required in the event the respondent does not voluntarily comply with
remedial actions ordered by the Law Department;
      (3)   Initiating proceedings based upon violation of federal or state law
and/or regulations;
      (4)   Initiating proceedings with any contracting agency, in the case of
any violation of §
557.03 by respondent in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, for
the purpose of terminating such contract or any portion thereof, or obtaining
other relief;
      (5)   Initiating proceedings with the state, where applicable, to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license of any person found to have violated any
provision of §
557.03;
      (6)   Directing the respondent to reimburse the complainant and/or the
city, as applicable for his or her actual and reasonable expenses incurred and
to be incurred as a result of each violation found, including, but not limited
to, expenses for moving and temporary storage of household furnishings,
additional expenses in connection with the purchase or rental of a dwelling for
alternative accommodations, and reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs;
      (7)   Directing the respondent to reimburse the city for its actual
reasonable direct expenses incurred and to be incurred as a result of each
violation found including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs;
      (8)   Assessing compensatory damages, as appropriate, or arrange to have
adjudicated in court, at the Law Department’s expense, the award of
compensatory damages against the respondent;
      (9)   Assessing civil penalties, as appropriate, or arranging to have
adjudicated in court at the Law Department’s expense, the award of punitive
damages against the respondent. For purposes of this chapter, civil penalties
are defined as penalties assessed against the respondent to vindicate the
public interest in an amount:
         A.   Not exceeding $50,000 for a first violation; and
         B.   Not exceeding $100,000 for any subsequent violation.
      (10)   Such other further relief as the Law Department may deem
appropriate for enforcement of §
557.03.
   (c)   The Law Department shall make a final administrative disposition of a
complaint within one year after the complaint has been filed, unless it is
impracticable to do so, in which case the complainant and respondent shall be
notified, in writing, of the reasons why disposition of the complaint cannot be
made within the time prescribed.
   (d)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the city, at its own
expense, from initiating appropriate court action on behalf of the complainant
in order to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   The complainant and the respondent shall have the right to appeal an
adverse final determination by the Board to the County Common Pleas Court
pursuant to Chapter 2506 of the Revised Code, or in such other forum or court
of competent jurisdiction as provided by law.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.13  JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   The city, the complainant or any person aggrieved by a violation of any
provision of this chapter may at any time within one year from the date of the
alleged violation, and in lieu of proceeding with the administrative process
set forth in this chapter, apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
appropriate relief including, but not limited to:
   (a)   Injunctive relief or an order otherwise compelling compliance with
this chapter;
   (b)   Compensatory damages and/or punitive damages;
   (c)   Reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to complainant and/or the city as
applicable; and/or
   (d)   Such other or further relief as is appropriate for the enforcement of
this chapter and elimination of violations thereof.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.14  INTIMIDATION OR INTERFERENCE IN HOUSING.
   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following:
   (a)   Any person because of race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation,
national origin, age, disability, or ethnic group, Vietnam-era or disabled
veteran status, familial status, marital status or ancestry and because that
person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any property; or applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
accommodations;
   (b)   Any person because that person is, or has been, or is considering:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, religion,
color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group,
Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status, familial status, marital status or
ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in division (a) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity of
protection or protection so to participate.
   (c)   Any person because that person is, or is considering lawfully aiding
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age,
disability, ethnic group, Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status, familial
status, marital status or ancestry, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (a) above, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 557.15  PATTERN OR PRACTICE OF DISCRIMINATION.
   Whenever the Law Department has reasonable cause to believe that any person
or persons are engaged in a pattern or practice of resistance to a person’s or
persons’ full enjoyment of the rights granted by §§
557.03 or
557.18 of this chapter, or that any group of persons has been denied any of the
rights granted by such section and the denial raises an issue of public policy,
the Law Department may refer the matter to the Director of Law for commencement
of a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction on behalf of the city.
The Director of Law may seek any relief considered necessary to ensure the full
enjoyment of the rights granted by this chapter.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.16  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST REAL ESTATE STEERING.
   No person who receives or expects to receive pecuniary gain from the sale or
rental of housing accommodations shall:
   (a)   Influence or attempt to influence any other person who purports or
represents himself or herself to be a prospective purchaser, occupant or tenant
of housing accommodations to refrain from purchasing or renting housing
accommodations to referring to race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation,
national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, Vietnam-era or disabled veteran
status, familial status, marital status or ancestry, of occupants or
prospective occupants of other housing accommodations in the neighborhood;
   (b)   Influence or attempt to influence, by any words, acts or failure to
act any person who purports or represents himself or herself to be a
prospective seller, purchaser, occupant, landlord or tenant of housing
accommodations, in connection with the sale or rental of housing
accommodations, so as to promote or tend to promote the continuance or
maintenance of segregated housing or so as to retard, obstruct or discourage
integrated housing on or in any street, block or neighborhood; or
   (c)   Discriminate against any person who purports or represents himself or
herself to be a prospective seller, purchaser, occupant, landlord or tenant of
housing accommodations by any influence, suggestion, act or failure to act, or
accord any differential treatment among such persons, in connection with the
sale or rental of housing accommodations or in the furnishing of information,
services, or facilities relative thereto because of the race, religion, color,
sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group,
Vietnam-era and disabled veteran status, familial status, marital status or
ancestry of any person.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.17  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   This chapter shall not prevent the city or any person from exercising any
right or seeking any remedy to which that person might otherwise be entitled,
or from filing any complaint with any other agency or court of law or equity.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 557.18  SCOPE/SEVERABILITY.
   (a)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property, as
defined herein, located within the territorial limits of the city.
   (b)   Severability. If any provision of this chapter is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining provisions of the chapter shall not be invalidated.
(Ord. 212-01, passed 10-3-2001)
CHAPTER 558:  HUMAN RIGHTS
Section
558.01   Title, purpose and objectives
558.02   Definitions
558.03   Prohibited acts of discrimination - employment
558.04   Prohibited acts or discrimination - housing and real estate
transactions
558.05   Prohibited acts of discrimination - business establishments or public
accommodations
558.06   Prohibited acts of discrimination - educational institutions
558.07   City services, facilities, transactions and contracts
558.08   General exceptions
558.09   Posting of notices
558.10   Correction or retaliation
558.11   Preservation of business records
558.12   Human Rights Commission
558.13   Complaints - consideration by the Commission
558.14   Conciliation agreements
558.15   Hearings
558.16   Findings and orders
558.17   Remedies
558.18   Judicial review
558.19   Subpoenas
558.20   Resistance to, obstruction and the like of Commission
558.21   Additional remedies preserved
558.22   State/federal remedies
§ 558.01  TITLE, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Human Rights Act. In
enacting this chapter, it is the intent of the City Council, (hereinafter the
Council) to protect and safeguard the right and opportunity of all persons to
be free from all forms of unlawful discrimination, including discrimination
based on age, race, color, creed, religion, national origin, ancestry,
disability, marital status, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual
orientation or physical characteristic. The Council’s purpose in enacting this
chapter is to promote the public health and welfare of all persons who live or
work in the city. It is important for the city to ensure that all persons
within the city have equal access to employment, housing, public accommodations
and education.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING. To make, print, publish, advertise or otherwise disseminate any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to any employment activity,
any business activity or any educational activity.
   AGE. Eighteen years of age or older except as otherwise provided by law.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT.  Any entity, however organized, that furnishes
goods, services or accommodations to the general public. An otherwise
qualifying establishment that has membership requirements is considered to
furnish services to the general public if its membership requirements consist
only of payment of fees or consist only of requirements under which a
substantial portion of the residents of the city could qualify.
   DISABILITY  or DISABLED.  With respect to an individual, a physical or
mental impairment, a record of such an impairment, or being perceived or
regarded as having such impairment. For purposes of this chapter,
discrimination on the basis of disability means that no covered entity shall
discriminate against a qualified individual with a disability because of that
individual’s disability. The term QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL WITH A DISABILITY  shall
mean an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the employment positions
that the individual holds or desires.
   DISCRIMINATE, DISCRIMINATION  or DISCRIMINATORY. Any act, policy or practice
that, regardless of intent, has the effect of subjecting any person to
differential treatment as a result of that person’s race, color, creed,
religion, national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status, gender, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation or physical characteristic.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION.  Any public or private educational institution
including an academy, college, elementary or secondary school, extension
course, kindergarten, pre-school, nursery school, university, and any business,
nursing, professional, secretarial, technical or vocational school.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed or seeking employment from an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person who, for compensation, regularly employs five or more
individuals, not including the employer’s parents, spouse or children. For
purposes of this chapter, an EMPLOYER  “regularly” employs five individuals
when the employer employs five or more individuals for each working day in any
20 or more calendar weeks in the current or previous calendar year. For
purposes of this chapter, an EMPLOYER  is also any person acting on behalf of
an employer, directly or indirectly, or any employment agency.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY.  Any person regularly undertaking with or without
compensation to procure opportunities for employment or to procure, recruit,
refer or place employees, whether in temporary or permanent positions of
employment.
   GENDER. Actual or perceived sex category or sexual characteristics.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION.  Having or being perceived as having a gender
identity or expression whether or not that gender identity or expression is
different from that traditionally associated with the sex assigned to that
individual at birth.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION.  Any organization that exists and is constituted for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or of other
mutual aid or protection on behalf of employees.
   MARITAL STATUS.  The state of being married, single, divorced, separated or
widowed.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, legal
representative, trustee, trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, guardian, conservator
or group of persons. It includes the city but does not include state or federal
governmental units.
   PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTIC . A bodily condition or bodily characteristic of any
person that is from birth, accident or disease, or from any natural physical
development, including individual physical mannerisms, including, but not
limited to, height and weight. PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTIC shall not relate to
those situations where a bodily condition or characteristic will present a
danger to the health, welfare or safety of any individual.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION.  Inns, taverns, hotels, motels, restaurants,
wholesale outlets, retail outlets, banks, savings and loan associations, other
financial institutions, credit information bureaus, insurance companies,
dispensaries, clinics, hospitals, theaters, recreational parks and facilities,
trailer camps, garages, public halls and all other establishments within the
city which offers goods, services, accommodations and entertainment to the
public. A PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION  does not include any institution, club
or other place of accommodation, which by its nature is distinctly private.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT.  Any specification in a deed, land contract or lease
limiting the transfer, rental, lease or other use of any housing.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION.  Actual or perceived heterosexuality, homosexuality or
bisexuality.
   TRANSGENDERED. The condition or state wherein a person manifests gender
characteristics, behavior or self-identification typical of or commonly
associated with persons of another gender, and which may be characterized by
assumption of the appearance or other qualities commonly associated with
another gender.
   TRANSACTION IN REAL ESTATE.  The exhibiting, listing, advertising,
negotiating, agreeing to transfer or transferring, whether by sale, lease,
sublease, rent, assignment or other agreement, of any interest in real property
or improvements thereon.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.03  PROHIBITED ACTS OF DISCRIMINATION - EMPLOYMENT.
   With regard to employment, it shall be unlawful for any employers or labor
organizations to engage in any of the following acts, wholly or partially, for
a discriminatory reason:
   (a)   To fail to hire, refuse to hire or discharge an individual;
   (b)   To discriminate against any individual, with respect to compensation,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, including promotion. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require any employer to provide benefits,
such as insurance, to individuals not employed by the employer;
   (c)   To limit, segregate or classify employees in any way which would
deprive or tend to deprive any employee of employment opportunities, or which
would otherwise tend to adversely affect his or her status as an employee;
   (d)   To fail or refuse to refer for employment any individual in such a
manner that would deprive an individual of employment opportunities, that would
limit an individual’s employment opportunities or that would otherwise
adversely affect an individual’s status as a prospective employee or as an
applicant for employment;
   (e)   To discriminate against an individual in admission to or employment
in, any program established to provide apprenticeship or other job training,
including an on-the-job training program;
   (f)   To print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any
discriminatory notice or advertisement relating to employment. This division
shall not be construed so as to expose the person who prints or publishes the
notice or advertisement, such as a newspaper, to liability; or
   (g)   To discriminate in referring an individual for employment whether the
referral is by an employment agency, labor organization or any other person.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 558.04  PROHIBITED ACTS OR DISCRIMINATION - HOUSING AND REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTIONS.
   With regard to housing and real estate transactions, it shall be unlawful to
engage in any of the following acts, wholly or partially, for a discriminatory
reason:
   (a)   To discriminate by impeding, delaying, discouraging or otherwise
limiting or restricting any transaction in real estate;
   (b)   To discriminate by imposing different terms on a real estate
transaction;
   (c)   To represent falsely that an interest in real estate is not available
for transaction;
   (d)   To include in the terms or conditions of a real estate transaction any
discriminatory clause, condition or restriction;
   (e)   To discriminate in performing, or refusing to perform, any act
necessary to determine an individual’s financial ability to engage in a real
estate transaction;
   (f)   For a property manager to discriminate by refusing to provide equal
treatment of, or services to, occupants of any real estate which he or she
manages;
   (g)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any discriminatory notice, statement or advertisement with respect to a real
estate transaction or proposed real estate transaction, or financing relating
thereto. This division shall not be construed to prohibit advertising directed
to physically disabled persons or persons over the age of 55 for the purpose of
calling to their attention the existence or absence of housing accommodations
or services for the physically disabled or elderly;
   (h)   To discriminate in any financial transaction involving real estate, on
account of the location of the real estate, be it residential or nonresidential
(“red-lining”);
   (i)   For a real estate operator, a real estate broker, a real estate
salesperson, a financial institution, an employee of any of these or any other
person, for the purposes of inducing a real estate transaction from which such
person may benefit financially, to represent that a change has occurred or will
or may occur in the composition with respect to age, race, color, creed,
religion, national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status, gender, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation or physical characteristic of the
owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood or area in which the real
property is located, or to represent that this change will or may result in the
lowering of property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or
a decline in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood or area in which
the real property is located (“block-busting”);
   (j)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (a) through (h) above, it
shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an owner to limit
occupancy on the basis of a person’s low-income, age over 55 years or
disability status in accordance with federal or state law; or
   (k)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (a) through (h) above, it
shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an owner, lessor or renter
to refuse to rent, lease or sublease a portion of a single-family dwelling unit
to a person as a tenant, roomer or boarder where it is anticipated that the
owner, lessor or renter will be occupying any portion of the single-family
dwelling, or to refuse to rent, lease or sublease where it is anticipated that
the owner, lessor or renter will be sharing either a kitchen or a bathroom with
the tenant, roomer or boarder.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 558.05  PROHIBITED ACTS OF DISCRIMINATION - BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS OR PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a business establishment or place of public
accommodation to engage in any of the following acts, wholly or partially, for
a discriminatory reason:
   (a)   To deny, directly or indirectly, any person the full enjoyment of the
goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations of any
business establishment or place of public accommodation; or
   (b)   To print, publish, circulate, post or mail, directly or indirectly, a
statement, advertisement or sign which indicates that the full and equal
enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and
accommodations of a business establishment or place of public accommodation
will be unlawfully refused, withheld from or denied an individual, or which
indicates that an individual’s patronage of, or presence at, the business
establishment or place of public accommodation is objectionable, unwelcome,
unacceptable or undesirable.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 558.06  PROHIBITED ACTS OF DISCRIMINATION - EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for an educational institution to engage in any of the
following acts, wholly or partially, for a discriminatory reason:
   (a)   To deny, restrict, abridge or condition the use of, or access to, any
educational facilities or educational services to any person otherwise
qualified;
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (a) above it shall not be
an unlawful discriminatory practice to limit attendance in classes or programs
conducted by an educational institution based upon a reasonable educational
objective, except where to do so would otherwise violate a duty imposed upon
the institution by federal or state law to provide reasonable accommodation; or
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (a) above, it shall not be
an unlawful discriminatory practice for an educational institution operated by
a religious or denominational institution, or established for a bona fide
religious purpose, to admit students or program attendees on the basis of that
student’s or attendee’s religious or denominational affiliation or preference.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 558.07  CITY SERVICES, FACILITIES, TRANSACTIONS AND CONTRACTS.
   (a)   The city shall be bound by the provisions of this chapter to the same
extent as private individuals.
   (b)   All contractors proposing to, or currently doing business with, the
city shall abide by this chapter.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.08  GENERAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Any practice which has a discriminatory effect and which would
otherwise be prohibited by this chapter shall not be deemed unlawful if it can
be established that the practice is not intentionally devised to contravene the
prohibitions of this chapter and there exists no less discriminatory means of
satisfying a business purpose.
   (b)   Unless otherwise prohibited by law, nothing contained in this chapter
shall be construed to prohibit promotional activities such as senior citizen
discounts and other similar practices designed primarily to encourage
participation by a protected group.
   (c)   It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an employer to
observe the conditions of a bona fide seniority system or a bona fide employee
benefit system such as a retirement, pension or insurance plan which is not a
subterfuge or pretext to evade the purposes of this chapter.
   (d)   It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for any person to
carry out an affirmative action plan. An AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN  is any plan
devised to effectuate remedial or corrective action taken in response to past
discriminatory practices, or as otherwise required by state or federal law.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit
selection or rejection based solely upon a bona fide occupational qualification
or a bona fide physical requirement. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
deemed to prohibit a religious or denominational institution from selecting or
rejecting applicants and employees for non-secular positions on the basis of
the applicant’s or employee’s conformance with the institution’s religious or
denominational principles. If a party asserts that an otherwise unlawful
practice is justified as a permissible bona fide occupational qualification, or
a permissible bona fide physical requirement, that party shall have the burden
of proving:
      (1)   The discrimination is in fact a necessary result of such a bona
fide condition; and
      (2)   There exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying the bona
fide requirement.
   (f)   If a party asserts that an otherwise unlawful practice is justified as
a permissible bona fide religious or denominational preference, that party
shall have the burden of proving that the discrimination is in fact a necessary
result of such a bona fide condition.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.09  POSTING OF NOTICES.
   Every employer or institution subject to this chapter shall post and keep
posted in a conspicuous location where business or activity is customarily
conducted or negotiated, a notice, the language and form of which has been
prepared by the city, setting forth excerpts from or summaries of the pertinent
provisions of this chapter and information pertinent to the enforcement of
rights hereunder. The notice shall be in both English and Spanish. If over 10%
of an employer’s employees speak, as their native language, a language other
than English or Spanish, notices at that employer’s place of business shall be
posted in that language. At the request of the employer or institution, notices
required by this section shall be provided by the city. Notices shall be posted
within ten days after the receipt from the city.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.10  CORRECTION OR RETALIATION.
   (a)   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice to coerce, threaten,
retaliate against or interfere with any person in the exercise of, or on
account of having exercised, or on account of having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise of, any right granted or protected under this
chapter, or on account of having expressed opposition to any practice
prohibited by this chapter.
   (b)   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice for any person to
require, request or suggest that a person retaliate against, interfere with,
intimidate or discriminate against a person, because that person has opposed
any practice made unlawful by this chapter, or because that person has made a
charge, or because that person has testified, assisted or participated in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing authorized under this
chapter.
   (c)   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice for any person to
cause or coerce, or attempt to cause or coerce, directly or indirectly, any
person in so as to prevent that person from complying with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 558.11  PRESERVATION OF BUSINESS RECORDS.
   Where a complaint of discrimination has been filed against a person under
this chapter, such person shall preserve all records relevant to the complaint,
until a final disposition of the complaint.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.12  HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   (a)   The city creates, hereby, the Human Rights Commission of the city,
hereafter referred to as “the Commission”, to be comprised of no fewer than
five members and no more than seven members who shall be broadly representative
of the population of the city. On the basis of recommendations from any and all
interested parties, including the City Council, as well as ethnic, racial,
religious, neighborhood, civic, community, social, fraternal, educational,
commercial and advocacy organizations, the Mayor shall appoint the members of
the Commission, subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the whole
membership of the City Council. Except for the initial appointees, the
Commission members shall serve staggered three-year terms and may be
reappointed for another three-year term after which the member shall not be
reappointed for at least two years. Of the initial members appointed, two
members shall be appointed for one year, two members shall be appointed for two
years, and three shall be appointed for three years. Every member shall have
been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to appointment and
shall continue to be a resident so long as he or she shall serve as a member of
the Commission. In the event of a vacancy, a replacement will be chosen by the
Mayor and will serve out the remainder of the vacant term.
   (b)   The Commission shall elect its own chair and vice-chair by majority
vote. The chair and vice-chair shall be voting members of the Commission and
serve one-year terms. There shall be a three-term limit for officers. The
Commission may create and modify rules regarding its meetings and procedures.
The Commission may create and appoint task forces and committees it deems
appropriate to carry out its functions. When appropriate for purposes of
investigating and adjudicating complaints, cases will be assigned to panels
consisting of three Commission members. The Commission chair and vice-chair
will appoint Commissioners to panels and provide administrative oversight of
panels; they will not serve on the panels. Each panel shall choose its own
panel chair on a case-by-case basis.
   (c)   The work of the Commission shall be managed by an executive director,
who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Commission. The
Commission shall employ such other persons as may be necessary to carry out its
educational, administrative and investigative work.
   (d)   The responsibilities of the Commission staff, under the direction of
the executive director, include managing Commission records and accounts,
developing public education programs, providing training for Commission
members, managing citizen complaints, seeking additional private-sector funding
for the Commission, facilitating Commission scheduling and communication, and
any other tasks needed to help the Commission perform its functions.
   (e)   In addition, the Commission may use the services of attorneys, hearing
examiners, clerks and other employees and agents who are city government
employees, except in those cases in which the city government is a party, and
in which case the Commission may seek the City Attorney’s approval to engage
appropriate counsel.
   (f)   In the enforcement of this chapter, the Commission and its panels
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To receive, initiate, attempt to mediate, investigate, seek to
conciliate, hold hearings on and pass upon complaints alleging violations of
this chapter;
      (2)   To maintain an office in the city;
      (3)   To cooperate with relevant federal and state authorities;
      (4)   To present an annual report to the Mayor and to City Council
setting forth the number of complaints received during the prior year, as well
as the disposition of the complaints, and the number of findings of probable
cause of violation. The Commission shall publish this report and make it
available in some format to the general public;
      (5)   To require answers to interrogatories, compel the attendance of
witnesses, examine witnesses under oath or affirmation in person by deposition
and require the production of documents relevant to the complaint. The
Commission may make rules authorizing or designating any member or individual
to exercise these powers in the performance of official duties;
      (6)   To cooperate with community, professional, civic and religious
organizations, as well as state and federal agencies, in the development of
public education programs regarding compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and equal opportunity and treatment of all individuals;
      (7)   To conduct tests to ascertain the availability of housing, both in
sales and, also in rentals of real property;
      (8)   To prepare an annual budget to be presented to and approved by the
City Council; and
      (9)   To develop and maintain a website that provides information on this
chapter, grievance procedures, the Commission’s annual report and any other
information that would further the purposes and intentions of this chapter.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.13  COMPLAINTS - CONSIDERATION BY THE COMMISSION.
   (a)   A person claiming to be aggrieved by an unlawful discriminatory
practice, or a member of the Commission, may file with the Commission a written
sworn complaint stating that an unlawful discriminatory practice has been
committed, setting forth the facts sufficient to enable the Commission to
identify the person(s) charged (hereinafter the “respondent”).
   (b)   The complaint must be filed within 90 days after the respondent
engaged in the alleged unlawful discriminatory practice.
   (c)   Within ten days after receipt of the complaint, the Commission shall
serve on the complainant a notice acknowledging the filing of the complaint and
informing the complainant of the respondent’s time limits.
   (d)   The Commission shall, within ten days of the filing of the complaint,
furnish the respondent with a copy of the complaint and a notice advising the
respondent of the respondent’s procedural rights and obligations under this
chapter.
   (e)   The Commission shall, within ten days of the filing, offer to both the
complainant and the respondent an opportunity to engage in mediation with a
neutral third party appointed by the Commission to find a no-fault resolution
to the matter; in order to engage in mediation, both parties must agree to so
engage in writing within five days of receiving the offer.
   (f)   If one of the parties refuses mediation or if mediation fails, the
Commission is obligated to commence an investigation of the complaint within 30
days after the filing of the complaint.
   (g)   The Commission, or designee, shall promptly investigate the matter to
determine whether the discriminatory practice exists and shall complete said
investigation within 90 days of the filing of the complaint.
   (h)   If it is determined that there is no reasonable cause to believe that
the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory practice, the Commission shall
furnish a copy of the order to the complainant, the respondent and such public
officers and persons as the Commission deems proper.
   (i)   The complainant, within ten days after receiving a copy of the order
dismissing the complaint, may file with the Commission an application for
reconsideration of the order.
   (j)   Upon such application, the chair or vice-chair of the Commission shall
review the original investigation and make a determination within ten days
whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in
a discriminatory practice.
   (k)   If it is determined that there is no reasonable cause to believe that
the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory practice, the Commission shall
issue an order dismissing the complaint after reconsideration and furnish a
copy of the order to the complainant, the respondent and such public officers
and persons as the Commission deems proper.
   (l)   If it is determined that there is reasonable cause to believe that the
respondent has engaged in a discriminatory practice, the Commission shall
furnish a copy of the order to the complainant, the respondent and such public
officers and persons as the Commission deems proper.
   (m)   The respondent, within ten days after receiving a copy of the order,
may file with the Commission an application for reconsideration of the order.
   (n)   Upon such application, the chair or vice-chair of the Commission shall
review the original investigation and make a determination within ten days
whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has not
engaged in a discriminatory practice.
   (o)   If it is determined that there is reasonable cause to believe that the
respondent has engaged in a discriminatory practice, the Commission shall issue
an order after reconsideration and furnish a copy of the order to the
complainant, the respondent and such public officers and persons as the
Commission deems proper.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.14  CONCILIATION AGREEMENTS.
   (a) If the Commission determines after investigation that there is
reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory
practice, the Commission shall endeavor to eliminate the alleged discriminatory
practices by conference, conciliation and persuasion.
   (b)   The terms of a conciliation agreement reached with a respondent shall
require the respondent to refrain from discriminatory practices in the future
and shall make such further provisions as may be agreed upon between the
Commission or its assigned staff and the respondent.
   (c)   If a conciliation agreement is entered into, the Commission shall
issue and serve on the complainant an order stating its terms. A copy of the
order shall be delivered to the respondent and such public officers and persons
as the Commission deems proper.
   (d)   Except for the terms of the conciliation agreement, the Commission
shall not make public, without the written consent of the complainant and the
respondent, information concerning efforts in a particular case to eliminate
discriminatory practice by conference, conciliation or persuasion, whether or
not there is a determination of reasonable cause or a conciliation agreement.
The conciliation agreement itself shall not be made public unless the
complainant and the respondent otherwise agree and the Commission also
determines that disclosure is not required to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (e)   At the expiration of one year from the date of a conciliation
agreement, and at other times in its reasonable discretion, the Commission or
its staff may investigate whether the respondent is following the terms of the
agreement.
   (f)   If a finding is made that the respondent is not complying with the
terms of the agreement, the Commission shall take such action as it deems
appropriate to assure compliance.
   (g)   At any time after a complaint is filed, the Commission may file an
action in a municipal court, seeking appropriate temporary relief against the
respondent, pending final determination of proceedings under the chapter,
including an order or decree restraining such respondent from doing or
procuring any act tending to render ineffectual any order the Commission may
enter with respect to the complaint. The court has the power to grant such
temporary relief or restraining order as it deems just and proper.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.15  HEARINGS.
   (a)   If a conciliation agreement has not been reached within ten days after
an administrative determination of reasonable cause to believe that
discrimination took place, the Commission shall serve on the respondent by mail
or in person a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint as it may
have been amended, or a copy of the letter of determination, requiring the
respondent to answer the allegation(s) of the complaint at a hearing before the
Commission or another individual pursuant to its rules, at a time and place
specified by the hearing examiner or examiners after conference with the
parties or their attorneys. A copy of the notice shall be furnished to the
complainant and such public officers and persons as the Commission deems
proper.
   (b)   A member of the Commission who filed the complaint or endeavored to
eliminate the alleged discriminatory practice by conference, conciliation or
persuasion shall not participate in the hearing or in the subsequent
deliberation of the Commission.
   (c)   The respondent may file an answer with the Commission by registered or
certified mail in accordance with the rules of the Commission before the
hearing date. The respondent may amend an answer at any time prior to the
issuance of an order based on the complaint, but no order shall be issued
unless the respondent has had an opportunity of a hearing on the complaint or
amendment on which the order is based.
   (d)   A respondent, who has filed an answer or whose default in answering
has been set aside for good cause shown, may appear at the hearing with or
without representation, may examine and cross-examine witnesses and the
complainant and may offer evidence.
   (e)   The complainant and the complainant’s private attorney, and, in the
discretion of the Commission, any interested person may intervene, examine and
cross-examine witnesses and present evidence.
   (f)   If the respondent fails to answer the complaint, the Commission may
find the respondent in default. Unless the default is set aside for good cause
shown, the hearing may proceed on the evidence in support of the complaint.
   (g)   Efforts at conference, conciliation and persuasion shall not be
received in evidence.
   (h)   Testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and transcribed. If
the testimony is not taken before the Commission, the record shall be
transmitted to the Commission.
   (i)   In a proceeding under this chapter, the production of a written,
printed or visual communication, advertisement or other form of publication, or
a written inquiry, or record, or other document purporting to have been made by
a person shall be prima facie evidence that it was authorized by the person.
   (j)   All hearings conducted under this section shall be conducted in
accordance with the state’s Administrative Procedures Act, being R.C. §§ 119.01
et seq.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.16  FINDINGS AND ORDERS.
   (a)   If the Commission determines that the respondent has not engaged in a
discriminatory practice, the Commission shall state its findings of fact and
conclusions of law and shall issue an order dismissing the complaint. A copy of
the order shall be delivered to the complainant, the respondent and such public
officers and persons as the Commission deems proper.
   (b)   If the Commission determines that the respondent has engaged in a
discriminatory practice, the Commission shall state its findings of fact and
conclusions of law and shall issue an order requiring the respondent to cease
and desist from the discriminatory practice and to take such affirmative action
as in the judgment of the Commission will carry out the purposes of this
chapter. A copy of the order shall be delivered to the respondent, the
complainant and to such public officers and persons as the Commission deems
proper.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.17  REMEDIES.
   (a)   Affirmative action required under this section may include, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Hiring, reinstatement, promotion or upgrading of employees with or
without back pay. Interim earnings or amounts earnable with reasonable
diligence by the person or persons discriminated against shall operate to
reduce the back pay otherwise allowable;
      (2)   Admission or restoration of individuals to union membership,
admission to or participation in, a guidance program, apprenticeship, training
program, on-the-job training program or other occupational training or
retraining program, and the utilization of objective criteria in the admission
of individuals to such programs;
      (3)   Admission of individuals to a place of public accommodation;
      (4)   The extension to all individuals of the full and equal enjoyment of
the advantages, facilities, privileges and services of the respondent;
      (5)   Reporting as to the manner of compliance;
      (6)   Posting notices in conspicuous places in the respondent’s place of
business in the form prescribed by the Commission and inclusion of such notices
in advertising material;
      (7)   Payment to the complainant of damages for an injury, including
humiliation and embarrassment, caused by the discriminatory practice, and
costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees;
      (8)   Payment to the Commission of a $500 fine for each violation. Each
day on which a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a new and separate
violation of this chapter. Fines collected pursuant to this section will be
used to establish a fund to educate the community about nondiscrimination
practices and to promote nondiscrimination in the city; and
      (9)   Such other remedies as shall be necessary and proper to eliminate
all the discrimination identified by the evidence submitted at the hearing or
in the record.
   (b)   The Commission may publish, or cause to be published, the names of
persons who have been determined to have engaged in a discriminatory practice.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.18  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   A complainant or respondent aggrieved by an order of the Commission,
including an order dismissing a complaint or stating the terms of a
conciliation agreement, may obtain judicial review, and the Commission may
obtain an order of the court for enforcement of its order, in a proceeding
brought in the Municipal Court. A proceeding under this section must be
initiated within 30 days after the Commission issued its order under §
558.13.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.19  SUBPOENAS.
   (a)   Upon written application to the Commission, a party to a proceeding is
entitled as of right to the issuance of subpoenas for deposition or hearing in
the name of the Commission by an individual designated pursuant to its rules
requiring attendance and the giving of testimony by witnesses and the
production of documents.
   (b)   A subpoena so issued shall show on its face the name and address of
the party at whose request the subpoena is directed.
   (c)   On petition of the person to whom the subpoena is directed and notice
to the requesting party, the Commission, or an individual designated pursuant
to its rules, may vacate or modify the subpoena.
   (d)   Any depositions of witnesses shall be taken as prescribed by Title V
of the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (e)   Witnesses whose depositions are taken, or who are summoned before the
Commission or its agents, will be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees
as are paid to the witnesses subpoenaed in Municipal Court.
   (f)   If a person fails to comply with a subpoena issued by the Commission,
the Municipal Court may issue an order requiring compliance. In any proceeding
brought under this section, the Court may modify or set aside the subpoena.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.20  RESISTANCE TO, OBSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE OF COMMISSION.
   Any person who willfully resists, prevents, impedes or interferes with the
Commission, its members, agents or agencies in the performance of duties
pursuant to this Act, or violates any order of the Commission shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 in addition to such or order or decree that may
be issued.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.21  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES PRESERVED.
   (a)   Any person injured by any act in violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall have a civil cause of action in Municipal Court.
   (b)   A civil cause of action under this section shall be filed in a
municipal court within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory practice
ceases or within 30 days of a final order by the Commission under §
558.13. Any such action shall supersede any complaint or hearing before the
Commission concerning the same alleged violations, and any such administrative
action shall be closed upon such filing.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 558.22  STATE/FEDERAL REMEDIES.
   (a)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are in addition to, not in
lieu of, those provided for by state and federal law. This chapter shall
therefore not be construed so as to limit a person’s right to file a complaint
with any state or federal agency, board, tribunal or court vested with
jurisdiction to receive, review and act upon complaints of unlawful
discrimination. This chapter shall not be construed as limiting the right of
any person to seek remedies in courts of competent jurisdiction pursuant to
state or federal law which grant private rights of action to persons aggrieved
by discriminatory acts of the type prohibited by this chapter. There is no
requirement that an aggrieved person file a complaint with the city pursuant to
this chapter before seeking any other federal, state or other remedy available
to the person.
   (b)   A person’s election to seek remedies provided for in this chapter
shall not operate to toll any statute of limitation set forth in state or
federal law for pursuing remedies under state or federal law for acts of
discrimination of the type prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 50-11, passed 7-19-2011)
PART 7:  BUSINESS REGULATION CODE
   Chapter
      
701.   CUSTOMER STANDARDS FOR CABLE TELEVISION PROVIDERS
      
709.   BOWLING ALLEYS; BILLIARD ROOMS; POOLROOMS AND GAME ROOMS
      
710.   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES AND INTERNET CAFÉS
      
713.   DANCES AND DANCE HALLS
      
715.   FORTUNE TELLING
      
717.   DAY-CARE FACILITIES AND TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES
      
719.   TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES
      
721.   MINIATURE GAMES AND DEVICES
      
729.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS
      
745.   PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
      
749.   SALE OF IRRADIATED FOODS
      
753.   BATH AND MASSAGE BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 701:  CUSTOMER STANDARDS FOR CABLE TELEVISION PROVIDERS
Section
701.01   Designation of city’s policy
701.02   Definitions
701.03   Cable Television Commission
701.04   Customer service standards
701.05   Public access channels
701.06   Provision of accurate information
§ 701.01  DESIGNATION OF CITY’S POLICY.
   It is the city’s policy to monitor through this chapter the provision of
cable television service to the citizens of the city in the general area of
customer service. Specifically, these customer service standards are adopted
pursuant to state law and § 632 (47 U.S.C. § 552) of the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., as amended by the Telecommunication Act of 1996 being 47 U.S.C. §§ 551 et
seq. (the “1992 Cable Act”, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), and Federal
Communications Commission regulations adopted thereunder.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 701.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein.
   1992 CABLE ACT.  The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.,  as amended by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 551 et seq., and as each may
be further amended.
   APPOINTMENT WINDOW.  Either a specific time or, at a maximum, a four-hour
time block during normal business hours. The provider may schedule service
calls and other installation activities outside of normal business hours for
the convenience of the subscriber.
   CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION  or COMMISSION.  The Cable Television Commission
of the city which is described in §
701.03.
   CITY. The City of East Cleveland.
   COMPLAINT. Any verbal or written inquiry, allegation or assertion made by a
subscriber regarding the unsatisfactory performance of the cable television
system or any portion thereof, or raising an objection to the customer service
practices of a provider.
   EDUCATION CHANNEL.  Those channels set aside for programs originated by the
city school district.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, its designee or any successor
thereto.
   MUNICIPAL CHANNEL.  Those channels set aside for programs originated by the
city.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS.  Has the meaning given it in §
701.04(a)(1) hereof.
   PROVIDER. Any cable television operator which has a franchise with the city.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNEL.  Those channels set aside for programs originated by
the general public or local organizations or institutions, but not including
the municipal channel or the education channel.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION.  The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully subscribes to a provider’s cable
television service by means of or in connection with the provider’s cable
television system whether or not a fee is paid for such service, but also
including, where applicable, any person requesting initial cable television
service and/or installation.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 701.03  CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION.
   (a)   Members. There is hereby created a Cable Television Commission of the
city which shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of a majority of City Council, for terms of four years. The initial
terms shall be as follows: one member for a term of one year; one member for a
term of two years; one member for a term of three years; and two members for
terms of four years. All subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four
years. All members of the Commission shall be residents of the city. The Cable
Television Commission shall have a Secretary designated by the Mayor. A member
of the city’s Law Department shall be in attendance at Cable Television
Commission meetings when determined to be necessary by the Mayor.
   (b)   Duties and responsibilities. The Cable Television Commission shall
have the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To hear complaints of subscribers regarding alleged violation of
the customer service standards set forth in this chapter and to undertake its
own investigation of a provider’s compliance with the customer service
standards. The Cable Television Commission shall endeavor to informally resolve
all such complaints and any violation of the customer service standards
discovered by its own investigation. In the event any complaint or Commission-
discovered violation is unable to be informally resolved, a hearing shall be
held by the Commission on the complaint or violation with at least ten days’
written notice to the provider and, in the case of a complaint, the
complainant. After hearing, the Commission shall make findings and conclusions
and issue an order and/or assess a penalty if appropriate as provided in §
701.04(h). All formal decisions of the Cable Television shall be deemed final;
and
      (2)   The Cable Television Commission shall have responsibility for
general oversight of the public access channel. In performing its
responsibilities with respect to general oversight, it shall hear complaints
from the general public and uses of the public access channel and shall attempt
to informally resolve complaints with the provider. In the event it is unable
to informally resolve complaints or in the event it discovers violations of the
rules governing the public access channel through its own investigation, it
shall make findings and recommendations to the Mayor with copies to the Law
Director, Clerk of Council and the provider. The Cable Television Commission
shall make an annual written report to City Council on the public access
channel within the city, which report shall include information regarding
usage, equipment, general compliance with the rules and regulations governing
the public access channel and suggestions for improvements.
   (c)   Meetings. The Cable Television Commission shall establish a schedule
of regular meetings and shall meet at such regularly scheduled meetings at
least four times per year. The Commission may hold special meetings to review
particular complaints or other matters. Notice of special meeting shall comply
with the city’s general notice requirements for special meetings of its boards
and commissions and shall include written notice to all providers. The
Commission, with the assistance of the Law Department, may establish its own
rules to govern the conduct of its meetings.
   (d)   Jurisdiction. The Cable Television Commission shall not have
jurisdiction over any aspect of the municipal channel or the education channel.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 701.04  CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Any provider of cable service in the city shall comply with the following
customer service standards effective 90 days after written notice of their
adoption is given to the provider.
   (a)   Subscriber complaint practices.
      (1)   The provider shall have a publicly-listed toll-free telephone
number and be so operated as to receive subscriber complaints and requests on a
24- hour a day, seven days-a-week basis. At least 90% of the time, the provider
shall connect a telephone caller to a live service representative staff member
within 30 seconds during the following times: 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Monday
through Friday; 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Saturday; and 11:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. on Sundays and 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on national holidays with the
exception of Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year’s Day and July 4, which shall be
10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The provider shall maintain written or computer-
generated records demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the city, its ability
to meet the standards in this chapter. A written log shall be maintained
listing all complaints and their dispositions. A copy of the written log shall
be provided for the Cable Television Commission’s review at said Commission’s
periodic meetings.
      (2)   Within a provider’s local office, monitors of reasonably recent
vintage shall display programming available on the local cable system allowing
subscribers to view a properly received cable picture.
      (3)   A provider shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Such interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall
occur during periods of minimum use of the system. A written log available for
city inspection shall be maintained for all service interruptions.
      (4)   A provider shall maintain adequate telephone lines and trained
personnel to respond in a timely manner to schedule service calls and answer
subscriber complaints or inquiries as required by this chapter.
      (5)   Work on subscriber requests for maintenance or repairs received
prior to 12:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, shall be commenced the same day.
      (6)   Work on subscriber requests for maintenance or repairs received
after 12:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, shall be commenced within 24 hours of
the request.
      (7)   Work on subscriber requests for maintenance or repairs received on
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays shall be commenced within 24 hours of the
request.
      (8)   Service calls for maintenance or repair shall be performed within
an “appointment window” as defined herein at no charge or a charge approved by
the city or the FCC. A provider may not cancel an appointment with a subscriber
after the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled
appointment. If a provider representative is not able to keep the appointment
as scheduled, the subscriber shall be contacted. The appointment shall be
rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the subscriber.
      (9)   If a provider fails to correct a service problem (other than a
service interruption which is governed by divisions (a)(10) and (a)(11) below)
within 24 hours after the provider receives notification of a service problem,
the provider shall credit one-thirtieth of the monthly charge for the affected
tier or premium channel to the subscriber for each 24 hours, or fraction
thereof after the first 24 hours, during which a subscriber is with reduced
service. The credit shall be made automatically by the provider without
requiring subscriber request. The provider shall, as part of the complaint log
to be provided pursuant to division (a)(1) above, inform the Cable Television
Commission on a monthly basis regarding the disposition of all credits provided
by the provider to subscribers pursuant to this division (a)(9).
      (10)   A provider shall respond within two hours to all service
interruption reports affecting at least one channel for 5% or more of the
system’s subscribers.
      (11)   In the event any service interruption continues for more than 12
hours after the provider is first notified of the service interruption, the
provider shall credit one-sixtieth of the monthly charge to all subscribers
affected by the service interruption for each 12 hours or fraction thereof
after the first 12 hours during which the subscriber is with reduced service.
   (b)   Installation.
      (1)   Subscribers who request installation or maintenance or repairs
shall be given the schedule option of morning, afternoon or evening (during
daylight hours) or Saturday appointments. Persons requesting installation of
cable service shall be afforded a right of rescission between the time cable
service is requested and the time service is actually installed. All new
installments, reconnects, service upgrades or downgrades shall be performed
within seven business days of the date the order was placed by the subscriber.
If a provider representative is running late for an appointment as scheduled,
the subscriber shall be contacted. The appointment shall be rescheduled, as
necessary, at a time which is convenient to the subscriber.
      (2)   Only those homes which require drops in excess of 125 feet shall be
required to pay for the provider’s materials and time at the rate per foot. All
other installations shall be performed at the advertised installation rate. For
the purposes of this division (b)(2), the term DROP shall mean the shortest
lineal distance from the distribution line to the nearest point of the home.
   (c)   Subscriber information. A provider shall provide to the city and all
new subscribers and, at least once a year, to existing subscribers, written
subscriber service information in conspicuous print which shall include, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The procedure for investigation and resolution of subscriber
service complaints, including the name and telephone number of the Secretary of
the Cable Television Commission or other contact person with the city;
      (2)   Programming services, rates and charges for all services, including
public access related charges;
      (3)   Billing practices as required by division (d) below;
      (4)   Service termination procedures;
      (5)   Change in service procedures;
      (6)   Refund and credit policy;
      (7)   Office hours;
      (8)   Converter/VCR hookup information and use instructions;
      (9)   Pay-per-view; and
      (10)   Parental control devices.
   (d)   Subscriber billing practices.
      (1)   A provider shall notify each of its subscribers, through the
written service information, of its billing practices. The service information
shall describe the provider’s billing practices including, but not limited to,
the following: frequency of billing; time periods upon which billing is based;
advance billing practices; security deposit requirements; charges for late
payments or returned checks; payments required necessary to avoid account
delinquency; availability of credits for service outages; procedures to be
followed to request service deletions including the notice period a subscriber
must give to avoid liability for such services; and procedures to be followed
in the event of a billing dispute.
      (2)   A provider shall notify all affected subscribers not less than 30
days prior to any change in the billing practices and such notice shall include
a description of the changed practice.
      (3)   The subscriber bill shall contain the following information
presented in plain language and format and in conspicuous print:
         A.   Name and address of the provider;
         B.   The period of time over which chargeable service is billed,
including prorated periods as a result of the establishment and termination of
service;
         C.   Each rate or charge levied for programming services, equipment
provided and other services or items offered;
         D.   The amount of the bill for the current billing period separate
from any balance;
         E.   The provider’s telephone number and a statement that the
subscriber may call this number with any questions or complaints about the
bill; and
         F.   The date on which payment is due from the subscriber.
      (4)   The account of a subscriber shall not be considered delinquent
until at least 30 days have elapsed from the due date of the bill, which shall
be a date certain. The following provisions shall apply to the imposition of
late charges on subscribers.
         A.   A provider shall not impose a late charge on a subscriber unless
a subscriber is delinquent, the provider has given the subscriber written
notice of the delinquency in a clear and conspicuous manner, and the subscriber
has been given at least eight business days from the mailing of the notice to
pay the balance due.
         B.   The total late charge for any delinquent bill should not exceed
5% of the amount of the delinquent bill.
         C.   No late charge may be assessed on the amount of a bill in dispute
if found in favor of the subscriber.
         D.   Any charge for returned checks shall be reasonably related to the
costs incurred by the provider in processing such checks.
      (5)   In the event a provider issues bills, statements, invoices or
notices to subscribers which separately itemize the portion or portions of the
provider’s charges which are attributed to any tax or fee, the itemization
format first shall be reviewed by the city. At a minimum, if a provider
itemizes any tax or fee on a subscriber’s bill, the provider shall itemize all
of its taxes or fees in a like manner. In no event shall any such itemization
by a provider be inconsistent with applicable law.
      (6)   Service to subscribers with delinquent accounts may be terminated
only after the account is 45 or more days past due and the subscriber has been
given at least two notices of delinquency and notice that service will be
disconnected on or after a date certain if the account is not paid by a date
certain.
   (e)   Parental control option. A provider shall provide, free of charge, or
for a charge approved by the city or the FCC, parental control devices to all
subscribers who wish to be able to delete any objectionable programming from
the cable service entering the subscriber’s home.
   (f)   Periodic subscriber survey.
      (1)   Commencing in 2005, and every two years thereafter, the provider
shall conduct a written random survey of city subscribers in a form and manner
approved by the city. Each questionnaire shall be prepared and conducted in
good faith so as to provide reasonably reliable measures of subscriber
satisfaction with:
         A.   Signal quality;
         B.   Response to subscriber complaints;
         C.   Billing practices;
         D.   Programming services; and
         E.   Installation practices.
      (2)   The survey shall be conducted in conformity with such requirements,
including supervision and review of returned surveys, as the city may
prescribe. The provider may satisfy the requirements of this division (f)
through a telephone survey conducted by an independent person in the business
of regularly conducting telephone surveys.
      (3)   The provider shall provide the city with the results of the survey
and shall report in writing what steps the provider is taking to implement the
findings of the poll survey, such as correcting problems or expanding services.
   (g)   Charges for disconnection or downgrading of service.
      (1)   A provider may impose a charge reasonably related to the provider’s
actual cost incurred for a downgrade of service, except that no such charge may
be imposed when:
         A.   A subscriber requests a total disconnection from the system; or
         B.   A subscriber requests the downgrade within a 30-day period
following any rate increase relative to the service in question.
      (2)   If a subscriber requests disconnection from service prior to the
effective date of an increase in rates, the subscriber shall not be charged the
increased rate if provider fails to disconnect service prior to the effective
date. Any subscriber who has paid in advance for the next billing period and
who requests disconnection from service shall receive a prorated refund of any
amounts paid in advance.
   (h)   Orders and penalties. The Cable Television Commission may make orders
and assess monetary penalties against the provider for violation of any of the
customer service standards set forth herein. The order may require the provider
to undertake an activity which the provider is required to undertake pursuant
to these customer service standards and may assess a penalty not to exceed $500
for each day that the provider fails to comply with the order.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 701.05  PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS.
   The public access channel shall be made available to all citizens of the
city on a reasonable basis. Rules and regulations governing use of the public
access channels shall be recommended by the provider and approved by the city.
After approval by the city, the rules and regulations governing the public
access channel, or a summary approved by the city, shall be given to
subscribers through a direct mailing at least one time per year. They should
also be filed with the Cable Television Commission.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 701.06  PROVISION OF ACCURATE INFORMATION.
   All information communicated by the provider to new, existing or potential
subscribers in connection with service subject to the standards of this chapter
shall be accurate and complete and shall not be misleading or deceptive, so as
to enable such subscribers to make fully informed consumer choices regarding
cable products and services.
(Ord. 70-06, passed 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 709:  BOWLING ALLEYS; BILLIARD ROOMS; POOLROOMS AND GAME ROOMS
Section
709.01   Definitions; applicability
709.02   License application; fees
709.03   Revocation or suspension
709.04   Hours of operation; sanitation
709.05   Poolroom and game room construction requirements.
709.06   Application information
709.07   Investigation; rejection of application
709.08   Game rooms: minimum distances
709.09   Game rooms: full-time attendant
709.10   Sign posting; hours for minors; age restrictions where liquor sold
709.11   Game machine serial numbers; visibility
709.12   Fee requirement; permanent, temporary or itinerant operation
709.13   Permit requirements; reporting requirements
709.14   Insignia or decal-type stamp; issuance
709.15   Fees if moving business within city
709.16   Floor plans required
709.17   View and lighting of interior
709.18   Age of applicants
709.19   Exceptions
709.20   Game rooms; curfew for minors
709.21   Minors prohibited in rooms where alcoholic beverages are sold
709.22   Gambling prohibited
709.23   Amusement device; requirements
709.24   Posting of license; expiration
709.25   Periodic check
709.26   Prohibited uses
709.27   Records to be kept
709.28   Regulation of sound
709.29   Giving of prizes, awards; exceptions
709.30   Private residences; schools
709.31   License fee; renewal
709.32   Suspension; revocation
709.33   Issuance of license
709.34   Private police
709.35   Appeals; variances
 
709.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Miniature games and devices, see
Ch. 721
§ 709.01  DEFINITIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAME ROOM or GAMING ROOM.  Any room or operation in which more than two
amusement devices or miniature game machines or gaming devices are housed or
located, such as pool tables, pinball machines, video games, shuffleboards,
gaming devices and other similar devices.
      GAMING DEVICES AND MACHINES. Includes both mechanical and electronic
amusement devices, and means any machine which, by the payment of moneys or
other things of value, or by insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc,
operates or may be operated as a game, contest or amusement.
      PREMISES  (which are open to the public or similar words as used in this
chapter). Includes clubs, private clubs, headquarters and meeting places of
fraternal and other societies, associations and bodies, and all other public
places, stores or business establishments, including private homes open to the
public.
   (b)   For purposes of this chapter the provisions hereof shall apply
primarily, but not exclusively to game rooms. Where there are two or less
gaming devices or machines, the businesses or establishments having less than
two such devices or machines are not “game rooms” as defined herein, and
accordingly, the sections which apply to game rooms herein will not apply to
such establishments unless the section or provision thereof shall expressly
specify some requirement for an establishment having any gaming device,
mechanical game or amusement device or machine for which a permit under this
chapter is required.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.02  LICENSE APPLICATION; FEES.
   (a)   Required; approval or rejection. No person shall open, operate,
conduct or maintain a public bowling alley, poolroom, game room or billiard
room or a public place where bowling, games, pool or billiards are permitted
within the city until a written application has been made to the Mayor and a
license issued therefor. The Mayor shall have the authority to approve or
reject such application if any of the requirements of this chapter are not
complied with.
      (1)   No transfer or assignment of any license either as to applicant or
place shall be permitted, except with the written consent of the Mayor, which
consent shall be endorsed upon the license and provided, further, that the
applicant applying for the transfer of any license shall comply with all of the
provision of this chapter as though he or she were an original applicant.
      (2)   The licenses granted hereunder shall be displayed in a conspicuous
place in the bowling alley, poolroom, billiard room or game room.
   (b)   Fees: proration.
      (1)   A license as herein provided may be granted by the Mayor upon an
application, which shall contain information and facts deemed necessary by the
Mayor and in such manner and form as shall be prescribed by him or her,
provided that the applicant, the property and the use of the property in
question shall comply with all of the provisions of this chapter and all other
city ordinances and state laws.
      (2)   The annual fees for such license shall be as follows and shall
accompany the application:
         A.   For bowling alleys: a fee of $50 for the first alley and $10 for
each additional alley;
         B.   For each poolroom or billiard room: a fee of $50 for the first
table and $10 for each additional table; and
         C.   The permit fee for each game machine shall be $100 per game
machine payable annually on or before December 31 of each year effective for
the following year from January 1 to December 31.
      (3)   A.   There will be a proration of the fee if application is made
after June 30 of any year and the fee to be paid shall be an amount of $75 for
any period for the remainder of the year after June 30.
         B.   Any fee paid for a permit for a machine shall be nonrefundable
irrespective of what part or portion of the year for which the fee is paid.
         C.   All permits granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire December 31, next after date of issue.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.03  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor shall have the power to revoke or suspend any license granted
under the provisions of this chapter if at any time the operation does not
comply in all respects with all of the provisions of this chapter and all city
ordinances and state laws, or if it should develop that any false or incorrect
information was given on the written application for such license.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.04  HOURS OF OPERATION; SANITATION.
   No person shall operate, conduct or maintain any public poolroom or billiard
room or public place where games of pool or billiards are permitted, or
electronic, electronically operated, manually operated and mechanically
operated miniature devices and games between 2:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of each
day of the year. All bowling alleys, poolrooms or billiard rooms, and rooms
where electronic, electronically operated, manually operated and mechanically
operated miniature devices and games are operated, conducted or maintained
shall be kept at all times in a clean, healthful and sanitary condition
approved by the Chief Building Inspector, and this provision shall include any
room adjacent thereto and connected therewith, and any hallway, stairway or
entrance connected with such bowling alley, poolroom or billiard room.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.05  POOLROOM AND GAME ROOM CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No public poolroom, billiard room or game room shall hereafter be permitted
to operate, unless in operation on February 21, 1961, in a cellar or basement,
or without the following window area, glass area and ceiling height
requirements.
   (a)   Window requirements. There shall be one square foot of glass area to
each 16 square feet of floor area. Windows shall be made to open at least 40%
of their glass area, or in lieu of such windows there may be installed a
mechanical ventilating system together with a gravity system, capable of
supplying not less than five complete changes of air per hour.
   (b)   Glass area. Any public poolroom, game room or billiard room shall have
a glass area of at least 100 square feet opening on a public street, which
glass area shall be unobstructed and so arranged that the interior of such room
shall be readily visible from such street at all times.
   (c)   Ceiling height. All public poolrooms or billiard rooms shall have a
clear ceiling height of at least 13 feet, and for a game room the height shall
be 11 feet.
   (d)   Game machines; space requirements.
      (1)   All pool tables and game machines shall not, individually or
collectively, occupy more than 35% of the projected floor square feet of the
room in which they are located and shall possess a clear unobstructed periphery
of at least four feet in width for pool tables.
      (2)   For upright machines, two feet shall be required from the back of
the machine to the wall, if so placed, and there shall be a four-foot aisle at
all times plus an additional two feet from the four-foot aisle to the machine
at the front.
      (3)   One-player machines shall have a distance of two feet on each side.
      (4)   All machines accommodating two players or more shall have a minimum
of four feet on each side of the machine.
      (5)   Table machines shall have a distance of five feet of space between
such machines when placed in line, but only two feet of space between such
machines shall be required when they are placed parallel to each other; the
above stated five feet of space being required to allow for the player’s body
width, chairs and distance between chairs.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.06  APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (a)   Every applicant for a license shall file with the Mayor a written
application stating the full name and address, including street and number of
the applicant, or if more than one person, or an association or firm, the full
name of all parties interested and the addresses, including street and number.
If the applicant is a club, association, society or corporation, the
application shall contain a complete list of the officers of such club,
association, society or corporation, with their names and addresses, including
street and number, and shall give the state in which the club, association,
society or corporation is organized, and the names of one or more persons whom
the club, association, society or organization desires to designate as its
manager or person in charge, with his or her address. The manager or person in
charge shall be a citizen of the United States. The application shall also
state the following, and no post office box is acceptable as an address:
      (1)   The premises where the games or gaming room is to be conducted,
including the street number;
      (2)   The age of the applicants in the case of individuals, and the
managers and officers in the case of a club, association, society or
corporation;
      (3)   Whether the applicant/owner is a citizen of the Unites States;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in operating games or a
gaming room and, if so, when, where and how long in each place within the
preceding five years; and
      (5)   The name of the premises in which the games or gaming room is
located and the complete address of the owner.
   (b)   The application shall be signed by the applicants, or in the case of a
club, association, society or corporation, the application shall be signed by
the manager or any of its officers.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.07  INVESTIGATION; REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   (a)   The Mayor shall investigate the character of the applicants, or the
officers of the club, association, society or corporation and the person who is
to have general management of the business. The application shall be rejected
if the Mayor finds that any of such persons named in the application are not of
good moral character or that any of such persons have previously been connected
with any gaming room where the license has been revoked, or where any of the
provisions with reference to gaming rooms have been violated, or that any such
person has been convicted of a felony, or if the gaming room sought to be
licensed does not comply in every way with the regulations, ordinances and laws
applicable thereto.
   (b)   The application for a license to operate a game room, or for a
miniature game machine, shall be denied if the Mayor determines that the
application, as filed, exhibits an apparent violation of any provision of this
chapter, any provision of the codified ordinances, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, or any statute or code of the state.
      (1)   The application for a license shall be denied if the Mayor
determines that the applicant has, within ten years of the date of application,
been convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving physical violence or
unlawful gambling activity. The filing of the application shall be deemed to
constitute consent by the applicant to the making of a criminal record
investigation by the city.
      (2)   For the purpose of compliance with this chapter, APPLICANT  means
any and all persons having a 25%, or greater, ownership interest in the
business of applicant. This requirement shall be applicable to a corporation,
partnership, joint venture and any and all other forms of business
organizations.
      (3)   In the event that an application for license is denied, the Mayor
shall state, in writing, within a reasonable time, the reason for the denial of
the license
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.08  GAME ROOMS: MINIMUM DISTANCES.
   A minimum distance of not less than 1,500 feet is hereby established as the
required distance which must exist between any game room and public or
parochial schools, public or parochial school playgrounds, churches, libraries
or another game room.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.09  GAME ROOMS: FULL-TIME ATTENDANT.
   Every game room within the municipal boundaries of the city is hereby
required to have on duty during its hours of operation, a full-time attendant,
21 years of age or older who shall have sole responsibility for monitoring the
miniature games and devices in the game room, and such full-time attendant is
not permitted to have any dual responsibility, including, but not limited to,
such responsibility as clerk, cook or custodian while he or she serves as such
attendant.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.10  SIGN POSTING; HOURS FOR MINORS; AGE RESTRICTIONS WHERE LIQUOR SOLD.
   Every game room or room where gaming devices are located is hereby required
to post a sign in a conspicuous place within the premises indicating that
school-age children cannot use the game machines during school hours; and
wherever liquor is sold, or liquor licenses are required, the game room is also
required to post a sign indicating age restrictions for persons who may be
present in the establishment.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.11  GAME MACHINE SERIAL NUMBERS; VISIBILITY.
   Every machine in a game room and every miniature game machine or gaming
device, whether in a game room or not is required to have the serial numbers of
such machines intact, clearly visible and located on the outside or exterior of
the machine.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.12  FEE REQUIREMENT; PERMANENT, TEMPORARY OR ITINERANT OPERATION.
   The fee and licensing requirements of this chapter shall apply to every
person irrespective of whether the games or game room are a permanent,
temporary or itinerant operation.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.13  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any and all establishments which, having properly and lawfully been
authorized by certificate of business occupancy permit, or otherwise, to
operate any business in the municipality, and which, as an incident to and in
conjunction with the main business of such establishment, shall install and
maintain upon, at or near such premises, any amusement machine, miniature game
or device whether in a game room or not, must first secure a permit for each
machine before such machine or machines shall be installed for operation and
use by the general public. Such applicant shall secure the necessary
application forms from the Mayor and shall state thereon the total number of
machines to be installed, operated or maintained in, at or near such
establishment or its premises and shall be charged with the duty of reporting
any newly installed machine or any substitutions made during the licensing
period.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.14  INSIGNIA OR DECAL-TYPE STAMP; ISSUANCE.
   (a)   The Mayor shall be responsible for the preparation of all forms and/or
applications and an insignia or decal-type stamp. Upon investigation by the
Mayor and upon sufficient evidence as presented by the applicant on the
application blank furnished by the Mayor, the Mayor shall issue a permit
covering each separate amusement machine or miniature game or device, and
shall, further, issue an insignia or decal-type stamp to cover such machine or
machines contained in the application blank. Such insignia or decal-type stamp
shall be placed upon such machine or machines by the applicant and it shall be
the duty of the applicant to ensure that such insignia or decal-type stamp
remains affixed thereto during the licensing period.
   (b)   In the event an amusement device shall be replaced during the permit
period, such insignia or decal-type stamp may be transferred without cost to
the new amusement device but not before application and notice to the Mayor to
such effect and upon the giving of a description and the serial number of the
new amusement device.
   (c)   If the permittee shall move his or her place of business to another
location within the city, such permit may be transferred to such new location
without cost upon application to and the furnishing of information required by
the Mayor. The new application for a new location shall cause investigation to
be made by the Chief of Police and the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.15  FEES IF MOVING BUSINESS WITHIN CITY.
   There shall be no requirement under this chapter to pay license or permit
fees twice if a business establishment or proprietor moves his or her business
or game room and amusement device to another location within the boundaries of
the municipality; and provided the original permit or license is valid, and in
effect for the year or portion of a year.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.16  FLOOR PLANS REQUIRED.
   An application for a game room license and for amusement device permits
shall be made to the Mayor upon forms to be prescribed by the Mayor. The
applicant shall attach to the application a floor plan, drawn to scale, by a
qualified engineer, architect or draftsman, showing the proposed placement of
each amusement device on the applicant’s premises. All regular and emergency
exits and all other pertinent equipment shall be clearly identified on the
floor plan.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.17  VIEW AND LIGHTING OF INTERIOR.
   Each gaming room shall be so constructed and maintained that a clear and
open view of the place may be had from the street on which the place of
business fronts and shall be free from screens, partitions, fixtures,
obstructions or painted or frosted windows which may in any manner interfere
with the view from the abutting street, provided, however, that a place of
business which is not located on the ground floor or which room does not
directly front or abut on any street shall be constructed and maintained so
that such view of the interior as previously described may be had from any
entrance to such room. In addition, each gaming room shall be lit so as to have
a minimum of 75 foot-candles of lighting throughout the room at all times of
use.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.18  AGE OF APPLICANTS.
   All applicants for game room licenses shall be 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.19  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as pertaining to
gumball machines, photo machines, postage stamp dispensing machines and/or
other such coin-operated machines, unrelated to the family of miniature games
and devices.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.20  GAME ROOMS; CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (Editor’s note: Former § 709.20 is now codified as §
537.24.)
§ 709.21  MINORS PROHIBITED IN ROOMS WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE SOLD.
   (a)   No person shall permit amusement or gaming devices to be operated or
played during regular school hours on school days, by any minor under the age
of 18 years unless such minor is accompanied by and in direct personal charge
of a parent or legal guardian. It shall be the duty of the person in whose
place of business any such device is placed, or who has title to or owns any
such device, or who has control over any such device to determine if in fact
school is in session for the individual operating, or wishing to operate, such
device.
   (b)   No person under the applicable prohibiting statutory age limit shall
be permitted to operate an amusement or gaming device or to be within the
premises of a gaming or game room or amusement arcade at any time that the
service or consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted at the place of
business where the device is displayed or located within the gaming or game
room or amusement arcade unless:
      (1)   Such device is located in a room in which the service and
consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited and such room is separated, by
floor-to-ceiling walls and doors which are kept closed except when used by an
individual for ingress or egress, from all rooms in which the serving or
consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted; and
      (2)   Such person, if under the applicable prohibiting statutory age
limit is accompanied by and in direct personal charge of a parent or legal
guardian.
   (c)   No person shall permit the operation of an amusement or gaming device
by a minor during the hours of curfew applicable to the minor. It shall be the
duty of the person in whose place of business any such device is placed or who
has title to or owns any such device, or who has control over any such device,
to know the curfew laws of the city and it shall further be the duty of such
person to ascertain if his or her patrons are violating such curfew laws and,
if so, to eject them without violence from the place of business, peacefully,
or with police assistance.
   (d)   No parent or guardian of a minor under the age of 18 years shall allow
such minor to operate a mechanical or electrically operated amusement device in
violation of this chapter.
   (e)   No person under the age of 18 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the
purpose of playing or operating an amusement or gaming device or entering or
remaining upon the premises of a gaming room or amusement arcade, in violation
of any provision of this chapter.
   (f)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of another person under the age of 18 years
for the purpose of such other person operating or playing any amusement or
gaming device or entering or remaining upon the premises of a gaming room or
amusement arcade, in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.22  GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No dice shall be thrown, nor shall a peaball be used, nor shall cards or
other games of chance or any form of gambling be permitted in any gaming room
or place where games or gaming devices are located, and gaming devices which
are in and of themselves gambling devices are hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.23  AMUSEMENT DEVICE; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any permit issued for a gaming or amusement device shall include a provision
requiring that the applicant render such amusement device(s) inoperable by
school age children in the days and during the hours that public elementary,
junior high or senior high schools are in regular session
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.24  POSTING OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION.
   Every licensee shall keep his or her current license or an exact duplicate
copy thereof conspicuously posted in the room where the devices herein
mentioned are displayed, operated or kept for operation.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.25  PERIODIC CHECK.
   The licensing authority is hereby authorized to make periodic checks of all
establishments during the business hours of such establishments for the purpose
of inspection of such amusement devices to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the general public using such device.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.26  PROHIBITED USES.
   No person shall play or use any mechanical device or game room for any
obscene purposes. No person shall use or permit to be used or maintained any
mechanical device or game room in such manner as to disturb the peace and quiet
of the neighborhood, or become a nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.27  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The Mayor shall keep and maintain on file in his or her office a full and
complete list of all licenses licensed under the provisions of this chapter,
and also a full and complete list of all mechanical devices which are
registered under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.28  REGULATION OF SOUND.
   Every permittee, operator of a game room under this chapter, or other
proprietorship, or person having any miniature game or device used is hereby
required to regulate the sound of such device or machine or patrons using same
in his or her establishment so that it will not be audible for a distance of
more than ten feet from the exterior limits of such establishments.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.29  GIVING OF PRIZES, AWARDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall, by himself or herself, by another person or otherwise,
directly or indirectly, give any prize, award, merchandise, gift or anything of
value to any player, or to any operator of any mechanical amusement device, or
to any contestant for high score on the device. Nonprofit charitable
organizations such as would qualify under the Internal Revenue Code to be tax
exempt are excepted and excused from this prohibition.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
709.99
§ 709.30  PRIVATE RESIDENCES; SCHOOLS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a private residence not
open to the public, or to schools, parochial or public.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.31  LICENSE FEE; RENEWAL.
   (a)   An annual permit fee of $100 shall be paid by the applicant, in
advance, for each calendar year, or part thereof for each amusement device to
be licensed by the city. The permit fee for each amusement device licensed by
the city after June 30 of any calendar year shall be $75 for the remainder of
the year of original issuance. A game room or amusement device permit shall not
be transferable from one person to another.
   (b)   Applications for the renewal of a game room license and for amusement
device permits shall be upon a form prescribed by the Mayor and may be filed
with the Mayor after October 1, but before December 31, of the year preceding
the calendar year for which the renewal is being sought. The Mayor shall not
renew a license until he or she has determined that the applicant remains
eligible to receive a renewal of the license, and that the premises referred to
in the license is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the codified
ordinances and all rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and all
applicable statutes and codes of the state.
   (c)   In the event of nonrenewal, the Mayor shall state his or her reason
for nonrenewal in writing and transmit within a reasonable time the reason for
nonrenewal to the applicant.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.32  SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (a)   Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to suspension or revocation by the Mayor following the issuance of
notice for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   A willful misrepresentation made by a person in applying for the
amusement device license issued by the city;
      (2)   A conviction of the license holder for any offense referred to in
the codified ordinances of the city;
      (3)   More than one conviction of the license holder or of any person
employed by the license holder during any period of 365 days for any violation
of the provisions of this chapter; and/or
      (4)   A determination by the Mayor that the operation of the amusement
device(s) licensed by the city has created a nuisance to the general public or
has directly and approximately caused, encouraged or contributed to the
delinquency or unruliness of a minor child.
   (b)   (1)   The procedure for the suspension or revocation of a license for
an amusement device shall be established by the Mayor.
      (2)   In the event of the suspension or revocation of a license, the
Mayor shall, within a reasonable time after suspension or revocation, provide
notice to the operator, owner or applicant stating in writing the reason for
the suspension or revocation.
   (c)   Every permit issued under this chapter may be revoked and the
licensing authority is hereby expressly authorized to revoke any such permit in
the event the permittee directly or indirectly permits the operation of any
such amusement device contrary to the provisions of this chapter or ordinance
of the city or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.33  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon determining that the application for a game room license is in
compliance with all applicable provisions of the codified ordinances and all
applicable rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and all statutes and
codes of the state, and that the applicant is not disqualified by virtue of the
provisions of this chapter from receiving a license, the Mayor shall, upon
payment of the license fee provided by the codified ordinances, issue a game
room or an amusement device license to the applicant, which license, unless
cancelled by the applicant or suspended or revoked by the Mayor, shall be valid
through December 31 of the year in which it was granted. (Ord. 7596, passed 10-
26-1982)
§ 709.34  PRIVATE POLICE.
   (a)   Should the Mayor determine that it is necessary from the nature and
from the conduct of a business having a gaming room that the manner in which
the business is operated creates a need for police in the interest of public
safety or welfare, then the proprietor, owner or operator of such place of
business shall, upon notice from the Mayor in writing stating the grounds
therefor, be required to hire security personnel or private police to abate any
risks to the public users of the permit premises.
   (b)   Such security personnel must comply with the standards, requirements
and procedures for private police as are established by the codified ordinances
and approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.35  APPEALS; VARIANCES.
   (a)   (1)   In the event the application for a license or permit is not
approved or in the event any license or permit issued under this chapter is
revoked, the applicant shall be notified by ordinary United States mail at the
address of the applicant, as set forth in the application for license or
permit. The notice shall state why the permit is not approved or revoked. The
applicant shall have ten days after receipt of such notice within which to
appeal such refusal or revocation. Such appeal shall be perfected by filing a
written notice of appeal with the Mayor or with the Board of Zoning Appeals
which shall give written notice by mail of the date, place and time of the
hearing to the applicant. Such hearing on appeal before the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be heard within a reasonable time after notice of appeal has been
received by the Mayor or Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   The appeal shall be heard by a Board composed of the members of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, which Board shall have the power after such hearing to
confirm the refusal or revocation or order the permit to be issued. The Board
of Zoning Appeals shall also have the power to approve, amend, modify or
reverse the decision of the Mayor.
   (b)   (1)   The Mayor shall transmit any and all notices of appeals to the
Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals who shall schedule or docket same for
hearing within a reasonable time thereafter, and either the Mayor or the
Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall orally and/or in writing, or
both, whichever will communicate effective notice, to the appellant that his or
her appeal has been received by the Mayor and/or Board of Zoning Appeals, and
will be scheduled at a time certain for hearing.
      (2)   Thereafter the Mayor or the Board of Zoning Appeals shall give
written notice by ordinary United States mail to the applicant or appellant of
the date, time and place of the hearing on appeal.
   (c)   Appeals shall be taken as otherwise provided in the codified
ordinances from orders, decisions or rulings of the Board of Zoning Appeals, to
Council.
   (d)   Variances may be granted under this chapter pursuant to Chapter 1107.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 709.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is
provided shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 7596, passed 10-26-1982)
CHAPTER 710:  COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES AND INTERNET CAFÉS
Section
710.01   Title, purpose and objectives
710.02   Definitions
710.03   Application for licenses
710.04   Conditions and regulations
710.05   Additional regulations
710.06   Internet café security
710.07   License expiration, suspension or revocation
710.08   License fees
710.09   Equal opportunity
 
710.99   Penalty
§ 710.01  TITLE, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (a)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Internet
Café Act.
   (b)   Purpose and objectives. It is the purpose of this chapter and the
policy of the city to establish standards for licensing, regulation and control
of computerized internet sweepstakes devices and internet cafés and premises
upon which they are located and operated for public purpose. The objectives of
this chapter are to prevent safety and fire hazards, disturbances, disruption
of pedestrian traffic, disorderly assemblies, theft of personal property,
gambling and juvenile truancy within the city.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The City Board of Zoning Appeals.
   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE.  Any computer, either directly or
indirectly, game or apparatus which, upon the insertion of a coin, token or
similar object, or upon payment of anything of value, wherein a product or
service is provided, and may be operated by the public, whether or not
registering a score, and which in no way tends to encourage gambling.
   INTERNET CAFÉ.  Any individual premises upon which any computerized
sweepstakes device is located for the public use, whether or not such premises
have other business purposes of any nature whatsoever.
   LICENSEE. The person or persons who sign an application for a license
hereunder and to whom such license is issued.
   OPERATOR. The person or persons having authority to control the premises of
an arcade amusement center or an accessory amusement area.
   OWNER. Any person who possesses a pecuniary interest, either directly or
indirectly, of 10% or more in an amusement device business.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
any other form of business organization.
   PREMISES. The building or portion thereof used for conducting the operation
of an internet café.
   SCHOOL. Any educational institution, public, private, secular or parochial,
which offers instruction of high school grade or lower.
   SERVICE DIRECTOR.  The Service Director or his or her designated
representative.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (a)   General requirements. All applications for licenses under this chapter
shall be in writing on a form approved by and filed with the city’s Board of
Zoning Appeals. The application shall be signed by the owner or owners and
shall contain information required by this section supplied in detail as to
each such person, including general and limited partners, or partnerships,
shareholders of corporations and principals of any other type of business
entity. In the event that no person owns 10% or more of the business, such
application shall be signed by an authorized representative. All applications
shall contain a statement that the information contained therein is complete,
accurate and truthful to the best knowledge of all applicants. Every owner and
interest holder of the business, as a condition precedent, shall be required to
consent to a confidential criminal background investigation, including
fingerprint identification by the city’s Police Department and said persons
shall pay for the costs associated with obtaining said fingerprints.
   (b)   Contents of applications. The application shall contain the following
information as to all owners:
      (1)   True name and all names previously used of each owner;
      (2)   Date(s) of birth of each owner;
      (3)   Date of incorporation of legal entity;
      (4)   Current address(es) of owners/business and addresses within past
five years;
      (5)   Employment history, past five years;
      (6)   A statement as to whether or not the owner(s) have been convicted
of any crime other than traffic offenses and, if so, the date and place of
conviction, nature of the offense and penalty imposed;
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the owner has ever conducted an
internet café and, if so, when, where and for how long;
      (8)   A description of the nature and operation of the main type of
business activity to be conducted upon the premises;
      (9)   Address and telephone number for the premises;
      (10)   The name under which the business and premises will operate;
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the owner will directly operate
the sweepstakes terminal café, or whether or not an operator who is not an
owner will operate it, and if the latter, the application shall contain
information required by this section supplied in detail as to each such
operator;
      (12)   A statement and supporting documentation from a certified
independent regulatory compliance test laboratory that the software performs in
similar fashion as other permitted sweepstakes commercially offered to the
public and that the entries are drawn from a pre-created finite static pool of
entries with assigned values. To be certified, the independent regulatory
compliance testing laboratory must be authorized to test regulated gaming
equipment by at least one state government gaming regulatory agency;
      (13)   A floor plan of the premises and the immediate vicinity drawn to
scale, showing the square footage and placement of the computerized sweepstakes
devices, exits, windows, storage spaces, bicycle storage racks and off-street
parking;
      (14)   The name, address and telephone number of the agent of the
business upon whom service of process can effectively and validly be made;
      (15)   The number, type, name, model and manufacturer’s serial number of
each computerized sweepstakes device requested to be licensed;
      (16)   The name and address of the owner, distributor and manufacturer of
each computerized sweepstakes device requested to be licensed;
      (17)   Specification of terms of agreement governing the acquisition and
installation of each computerized sweepstakes device requested to be licensed;
      (18)   A description as to the nature and type of property or services
which will be sold or supplied upon the premises;
      (19)   A copy of the title or lease to the premises;
      (20)   A copy of the originating organization document (e.g., articles of
incorporation (corporations), operating agreement (limited liability
companies), or partnership agreement (partnerships));
      (21)   Specification of days of the week and hours of the day during
which the licensed activity will operate;
      (22)   Any other information the city may deem reasonably necessary for
the full interest of the public in the application;
      (23)   A copy of employer identification number, business registration
form and other evidence that the owner is in full compliance with applicable
tax regulations; and
      (24)   Copies of any other applicable licenses for operations at the
premises.
   (c)   Reports from city officials. Upon receipt of a license application
hereunder, the city shall request the following reports which shall be
submitted to the city’s Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) within 30 days of the
date of the application filing:
      (1)   A written report from the Fire Chief shall be submitted to the BZA
as to whether the premises and computerized sweepstakes devices thereon will
create a fire hazard;
      (2)   A written report from the Police Chief shall be submitted to the
BZA specifying, with regard to all owners and operators, any convictions for
any felony or for any misdemeanor involving the operation of an amusement
device business or involving physical violence, gambling activity, controlled
substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude;
and
      (3)   A written report from the Building Inspector shall be submitted to
the BZA as to whether all building and zoning laws have been satisfied.
   (d)   Determination process.
      (1)   Council approval. All applications for licenses under this chapter
shall be submitted to the city’s Board of Zoning Appeals who shall hold a
hearing and submit a written recommendation to the City Council. Licenses are
valid only upon approval by City Council.
      (2)   Appeal of denial. In the event the City Council denies issuance of
the license, the applicant shall be notified of such denial and the specific
reasons therefor in writing. Such notice shall be given by certified mail or
hand-delivered to the applicant at the address specified in the application.
The applicant shall have ten days after receipt of such notice within which to
appeal such denial and request to be heard before Council, by filing a written
notice of appeal with the Clerk of Council. Thereupon, the applicant shall have
not less than ten days notice of the date and place of the hearing. The appeal
shall be heard by the City Council which shall have the power after such
hearing to confirm the denial or grant the requested license or grant a
conditional or provisional one based on additional information. In rendering
its decision, the Council may, for good cause shown, modify or waive any of the
provisions of this chapter in the interest of justice.
      (3)   Appeal to court. The decision of the Council may, within 30 days
thereof, be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2506.
   (e)   License renewal.
      (1)   Each computerized sweepstakes devise and internet café license must
be renewed annually. At the time of renewal, a statement shall be filed with
the Board of Zoning Appeal that the information listed on the original
application for the license is still complete, accurate and truthful to the
best knowledge of all applicants, or a statement shall be filed with the Board
of Zoning Appeals listing each and every item of information which has changed
since the original application.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may determine to accept such statement
and issue the license requested, or may determine to enforce the procedure
required for an original license.
   (f)   Minimum licensing requirements. No license shall be issued (or
renewed) for any business or premises:
      (1)   Where any of the owners or the operators has been convicted within
the last five years of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving: the
operation of a sweepstakes terminal café business, physical violence, gambling
activities, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime
involving moral turpitude;
      (2)   Where the premises do not specifically designate at least 30 gross
square feet of floor area for each computerized sweepstakes device to be
located upon the premises, excluding areas used for other principal uses;
      (3)   Where the premises do not provide a minimum of one and one-half
parking spaces for every two computerized sweepstakes devices plus one space
per employee based on the largest number of employees, plus one parking space
per 100 square feet of additional area of the premises;
      (4)   Where the premises are located within 500 feet of any school,
playground or other internet café;
      (5)   Where it is determined that the premises or operation thereof would
be in violation of any provision of the Building Code, the Zoning Code or the
Fire Code of the city or any other pertinent provisions of local, state or
federal law;
      (6)   Where the applicant made a false statement as to a material matter
upon the application or in a hearing concerning the license;
      (7)   Where the application failed to provide all of the required
information; or
      (8)   Where there is a failure to comply with all terms and conditions
under this chapter as well as all other applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.04  CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   In addition to any other condition or regulation contained in this
chapter or in state statutes, the following conditions and regulations shall be
applicable to and shall govern and control all licenses of sweepstakes terminal
cafés.
      (1)   Each such licensee shall at all times open each and every portion
of the premises for inspection by the Police Department and other city
departments for the purposes of enforcing any provisions of the city code.
      (2)   Each such licensee shall have present on the premises at all times
when the premises are open to the public at least one adult operator who has
not been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving the operation
of a sweepstakes terminal café or involving physical violence, gambling
activities, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime
involving moral turpitude.
      (3)   No such licensee shall open the premises for business except
between the hours (local time) of: Monday through Thursday, 9:00 a.m. to
midnight; Friday and Saturday, 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and Sunday 2:00 p.m. to
midnight.
      (4)   No such licensee shall operate the internet café in any premises or
structure for which valid licensing, including certificate of occupancy and
business licensing, where applicable, has not been issued.
      (5)   Internet cafés may not be permitted in any residentially or
historically zoned district within the city and shall adhere to all zoning
regulations within the applicable zoning district.
      (6)   Each internet café premises must be equipped with the number of
parking spaces specified in §
710.03(f)(3). This number of parking spaces is in addition to parking spaces
required for any other use of the premises and in addition to any other parking
spaces required by other tenants in a multi-tenant structure.
      (7)   No such licensee shall allow any person, other than an owner or
operator over the age of 21, who shall be readily identifiable, to be in
control of the premises nor allow such operator to be regularly situated in a
place upon the premises other than a place from which he or she has an
unobstructed view of the entire portion of the premises devoted to the
operation of internet café computerized sweepstakes devices.
      (8)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted in an internet
café.
      (9)   Any and all sweepstakes rules and odds of winning shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at the premises and displayed on the computerized
sweepstakes device at the start of each game or activity.
      (10)   No internet café shall be located within 500 feet of any school,
playground or other internet café.
      (11)   Each licensee shall operate the internet café business within any
and all applicable local, state and federal rules and regulations, including
all pertinent Federal Trade Commission rules and regulations.
   (b)   All computerized sweepstakes devices upon the premises of an internet
café shall be located thereon in conformity with the floor plan filed with the
application for the license and in such a manner:
      (1)   So as not to impair ingress or egress to the premises;
      (2)   So as not to interfere with free and unfettered passage through the
premises;
      (3)   So that at least 30 gross square feet of floor area is specifically
designated for each computerized sweepstakes device, excluding areas used for
other principal uses;
      (4)   So as to permit a clear and complete view of the interior of the
premises immediately upon entry; and
      (5)   So that the back of any computerized sweepstakes device is not
exposed to a window.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.05  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No licensee of an internet café by himself or herself, directly or
indirectly, or by any servant, agent or employee, shall permit or fail to take
active steps to eliminate the activities specified in this section from
occurring upon the premises. All such licensees shall have a duty to diligently
pursue enforcement of this section. The actions of the operator and the failure
to take action by the operator shall be imputed to the licensee.
   (b)   No such licensee shall:
      (1)   Permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent,
immoral or disorderly conduct, upon the premises;
      (2)   Permit the premises to become a gathering place for disorderly
persons of any type;
      (3)   Permit the gambling in any form or the possession or use of
gambling paraphernalia upon the premises;
      (4)   Permit intoxication or the possession or use of alcoholic beverages
upon the premises;
      (5)   Permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug, narcotic or
controlled substance;
      (6)   Permit the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or walkways adjacent
to the premises to become littered;
      (7)   Permit the premises or the activity conducted thereon to become a
public nuisance to the surrounding environs;
      (8)   Permit the walkways to become obstructed in any manner so that
pedestrian traffic is hindered;
      (9)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device thereon to be operated
at any time the premises is not open for business, or permit the entrance to be
locked at any time that the premises are open for business;
      (10)   Permit the premises to become overcrowded so as to constitute a
hazard to the health or safety of persons therein or to be in violation of any
of the city’s fire, health or sanitation codes;
      (11)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device to be offered to the
public for operation unless fully operable and in safe operating condition;
      (12)   Permit the premises to be open for business without displaying the
licenses therefor in a conspicuous place thereon;
      (13)   Permit the operation of any unlicensed computerized sweepstakes
device upon the premises;
      (14)   Permit any violation of any ordinance of the city or statute of
the state to take place upon the premises; and/or
      (15)   Fail to properly exhibit applicable licensing.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.06  INTERNET CAFÉ SECURITY.
   Each internet café location shall have on duty licensed security officer(s)
when open for business. Such security officer shall regulate traffic within the
off street parking facilities; shall prevent disorderly conduct, rowdyism and
noise or disturbances to others; shall immediately notify the city’s Police
Department of any unlawful activity; and shall prevent such location from
becoming overcrowded in violation of fire regulations.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.07  LICENSE EXPIRATION, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (a)   Expiration. Any sweepstakes terminal café license issued under this
chapter shall expire upon the transfer or sale of a majority interest in the
business, or the discontinuation of the business for a continuous period of 30
days. Any computerized sweepstakes device license issued under this chapter
shall expire upon the transfer or sale of such computerized sweepstakes device.
   (b)   Suspension and revocation. All licenses issued under this chapter may
be suspended or revoked by the City Council upon recommendation by the Board of
Zoning Appeals upon its finding of the occurrence of any of the following
events:
      (1)   A false statement by any licensee as to a material matter made in
an application for license or in a hearing concerning the license;
      (2)   Conviction of any license of any felony or of any misdemeanor
involving physical violence, gambling activities, controlled substances,
alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude; or
      (3)   Conviction twice within a one-year period of any license or
operator for a violation of this chapter.
   (c)   Hearing. The suspension or revocation of any license under this
chapter shall not be made without a hearing. The licensee shall be given at
least ten days’ prior written notice of the intent to suspend or revoke, which
shall set forth the time and place of the hearing and the specific reasons for
such suspension or revocation. The licensee shall have the right at the hearing
to present testimony and other relevant evidence and to orally examine any
person offering evidence as to the reasons for suspension or revocation.
   (d)   Appeal. The decision of the Board may be appealed to a court of
competent jurisdiction under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.08  LICENSE FEES.
   (a)   Computerized sweepstakes device license. The fee for each computerized
sweepstakes device license shall be $50 per device, per month.
   (b)   Internet café license. The fee for an internet café license shall be
$5,000 per year. The initial $5,000 fee shall include a $2,500 nonrefundable
portion to be retained by the city should the applicant not receive a license.
   (c)   Replacement license. The fee for a replacement license shall be $30.
   (d)   Nonrefundable application fee filed with application. The $100
application fee shall accompany the initial application and shall be
nonrefundable.
   (e)   Deposit of license fees. The internet café license fee shall be
deposited with the Board of Zoning Appeals upon submission of the application.
The computerized sweepstakes device fee shall be deposited within 14 days of
Council’s grant of the application.
   (f)   Return of fee. In the event an application is denied by the City
Council under this chapter, one-half of the internet café license fee shall be
returned to the applicant. In the event any license is suspended or revoked
under this chapter, no portion of the license fee shall be returned to the
owner.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.09  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
   No person shall be denied any license or the rights under this chapter
because of race, color, creed, sex, religious belief or national origin.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 710.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable by up to a six month jail term and/
or $1,000 fine or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 28-11, passed 4-19-2011)
CHAPTER 713:  DANCES AND DANCE HALLS
Section
713.01   Definitions; exceptions
713.02   Dance hall license required; application, fee and term
713.03   License nontransferability
713.04   Revocation or suspension; immediate discontinuance for violation
713.05   Dance permit required; fee and term
713.06   Prohibitions for conduct of dance
713.07   Dance hall inspectors; assignment and powers
713.08   Disposition of fees
 
713.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Class U4 Use, see §
1123.01
   Indecent exposure, see §
533.07
   Power to regulate, see Ohio R.C. 715.61
   Taking beer or liquor into dance hall, see §
529.09
§ 713.01  DEFINITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dances given in
private homes.
   (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance or ball held in a public hall, whether such dance
is public or private, and any other dance to which admission may be had upon
payment of a fee, or by purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket or
token obtained for money or any valuable thing, or in which a charge is made
for caring for clothing or other property, or any other dance to which the
public generally may gain admission with or without the payment of a fee.
      PUBLIC DANCE HALL.  Any room, place or space in which a public dance
shall be held, or any hall or academy in which instruction for dancing is given
for hire.
§ 713.02  DANCE HALL LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION, FEE AND TERM.
   (a)   No person shall hold any public dance or give instruction in dancing
for hire in any hall or academy until such hall or academy shall be duly
licensed for the purpose as hereinafter provided. The owner or lessee of any
such hall or academy shall apply for a public dance hall license for such hall
or academy, which application shall be on a form to be furnished by the Mayor.
No license for a public dance hall shall be issued until the Mayor shall
investigate such hall or academy and determine that it complies with and
conforms to all ordinances and regulations of the city and all regulations and
statutes of the state governing such use. The Mayor shall further investigate
into the nature of the operation proposed in the application for license,
including an inquiry into the moral character and reputation of the person who
is to operate such public dance hall. After completing such thorough
investigation into the suitability of the premises and the reputation of an
applicant, and upon being further satisfied that there is no misrepresentation
about, or fraud, flaw or imperfection in, such application, the Mayor shall
issue an annual license to the owner or lessee for such use upon payment to the
Finance Director of the annual license fee of $50. Any license issued hereunder
shall expire on December 31 following the issuance thereof.
   (b)   No church, public or private school, YM-YWCA, locally or publicly
recognized charity, or other responsible nonprofit organization located in the
city shall be required to pay the $50 license fee provided herein.
(Ord. 7598, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 713.03  LICENSE NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   No transfer of a public dance hall license shall be permitted.
§ 713.04  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; IMMEDIATE DISCONTINUANCE FOR VIOLATION.
   The license of any public dance hall may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor for disorderly or immoral conduct therein or for violation of any of the
provisions set forth in this chapter or any other ordinances, laws or
regulations affecting public dance halls or public dances. Such public dance
hall may be entered at any time by the Mayor or any member of the Police
Department, or any other person duly authorized by the Mayor for that purpose.
Any police officer of the city may cause any public dance to be discontinued
and such hall to be vacated, during the progress of a public dance for any
reason for which a license may be suspended or revoked and, in case any license
granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be forfeited or revoked as
herein provided, the Mayor may require that at least six months elapse before
another license or permit is issued for dancing in the same hall or academy.
(Ord. 4208, passed 1-2-1948)
§ 713.05  DANCE PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM.
   (a)   No person shall hold any public dance in a licensed public dance hall
unless a permit from the Mayor shall be first obtained for such public dance. A
fee of $5 per dance shall be paid to the Finance Director for each dance held
in a public dance hall.
   (b)   In addition thereto, an applicant for a dance permit shall pay to the
Finance Director at the time the dance permit is obtained, a sum equal to $5.75
per hour for each dance hall inspector required at such public dance multiplied
by the number of hours that the dance is to be conducted. At least one dance
hall inspector shall be on duty at all times at every public dance unless
otherwise provided under the terms of this chapter.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided herein, all public dance halls shall be
closed by 12:00 midnight, except that additional hours of dancing may be
authorized upon application to and approval by the Chief of Police prior to
such dance, and agreement by the permit holder to any additional conditions
required by the Chief of Police.
   (d)   The Mayor, upon application by a person seeking a dance permit, being
satisfied that responsible supervision has been provided for such public dance,
and that in fact no dance hall inspector is needed to maintain order at such
dance, may waive the charge provided herein for a dance hall inspector and
permit fee for the following permit applicants only:
      (1)   Any church, public or private school or the YM-YWCA;
      (2)   Any locally or publicly recognized charity or other responsible
nonprofit organization located within the city;
      (3)   Any public dance hall licensee for the conducting of dance
instruction sessions so long as a schedule of such dance instruction sessions
is on file with the Mayor; and/or
      (4)   Any public dance hall license conducting a private party where the
public generally is not invited and no fee or charge of any kind is made for
admittance to such private party.
(Ord. 7598, passed 10-26-1982)  Penalty, see §
713.99
§ 713.06  PROHIBITIONS FOR CONDUCT OF DANCE.
   No person when conducting a public dance shall:
   (a)   Permit any known prostitute, male or female procurer, or vagrant to be
present at any public dance or public dance hall;
   (b)   Permit on public dance hall premises any person having in his or her
possession, being under the influence of, selling or offering for sale, giving
away or drinking any intoxicating liquors or drugs. The provisions of this
subsection covering the giving away or drinking of intoxicating liquors shall
not apply to private parties where the public generally may not gain admission
thereto;
   (c)   Permit idlers, loiterers or hangers-on to be on or about the dance
hall premises;
   (d)   Permit gambling in any form on the premises;
   (e)   Discriminate between sexes by offering free admission to either sex as
an inducement to stimulate attendance; or
   (f)   Permit endurance dancing contests commonly known as marathon dances.
Penalty, see §
713.99
§ 713.07  DANCE HALL INSPECTORS; ASSIGNMENT AND POWERS.
   The Mayor shall appoint dance hall inspectors who shall receive for their
services such compensation as is established by ordinance, which compensation
shall be paid from the General Fund. More than one dance hall inspector may be
assigned for a single dance when, in the opinion of the Mayor, because of the
number of persons attending the dance or the type of dance being held, such
additional inspector is needed to maintain proper order and to enforce city
ordinance provisions. Dance hall inspectors shall have the power to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and shall have the power to eject or cause to be
ejected from any such dance any person failing to abide by or conform to such
provisions.
§ 713.08  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All license fees and permit fees paid hereunder shall be credited to the
General Operating Fund of the city.
§ 713.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 715:  FORTUNE TELLING
Section
715.01   Definition
715.02   License required; fee; revocation
715.03   Application
 
715.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Petty theft, see §
545.05
§ 715.01  DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, FORTUNE TELLING means to engage in astrology,
fortune telling, clairvoyancy, palmistry or phrenology.
(Ord. 6824, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 715.02  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; REVOCATION.
   (a)   No person shall practice fortune telling in the city without first
obtaining a license from the Mayor as provided in this chapter. The fee for
each such license shall be $200 per year and such license shall expire on
December 15 of each year. The fee of $200 shall accompany the application made
to the Mayor.
   (b)   The license may be revoked at any time by the Mayor for cause after
hearing held before him or her. The issuance of such license shall be
discretionary with the Mayor.
   (c)   A conviction of the licensee in a criminal action by a court of
competent jurisdiction shall be sufficient cause for revocation of his or her
license.
(Ord. 6824, passed 2-17-1976)  Penalty, see §
715.99
§ 715.03  APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to engage in the practice of fortune telling shall first
apply to the Mayor in writing giving particulars as to:
   (a)   The location, including space, number of rooms to be used and
applicable zoning regulations. Such location must be within an area zoned as a
Class U3 District;
   (b)   Whether the practice is to be conducted apart from or in connection
with any other calling or business;
   (c)   Whether any printed matter of any kind is to be sold or distributed in
connection with the practice of fortune telling;
   (d)   The previous location of the applicant for the past five years;
   (e)   How long the applicant has previously been engaged in the practice of
fortune telling;
   (f)   How much training or experience in such practice the applicant has
had;
   (g)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States;
   (h)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of violating the law or
ordinance regulating the practice of fortune telling;
   (i)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony; and
   (j)   Any other necessary information required by the Mayor.
(Ord. 6824, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 715.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 717:  DAY-CARE FACILITIES AND TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES
Section
717.01   Purpose
717.02   Definitions
717.03   Licensing of day-care facilities; fees
717.04   Hours of operation; location restrictions
717.05   Building requirements; play areas
717.06   Sanitation requirements; food service license
717.07   Care of infants
717.08   Health requirements
717.09   Personnel requirements
717.10   Records
717.11   Compliance with lawful requirements
717.12   Board of Zoning Appeals; regulations and variances
717.13   Appeal procedure
717.14   Remedy for violations
717.15   Emergency action
717.16   Inspection; right of entry
717.17   Provider’s right of refusal
 
717.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Child day-care, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 5104; OAC Ch. 5101:2-12
§ 717.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the licensing and
regulating of day-care facilities and Type A homes in order to ensure the best
possible care for the children using such facilities.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVERAGE DAILY ATTENDANCE. The maximum number of children cared for at any
one time each day the child care facility is in operation.
   CHILD. An infant, toddler, preschool child or schoolchild.
   CHILD DAY-CARE.  Administering to the needs of infants, toddlers, preschool
children and schoolchildren outside of school hours by persons other than their
parents or guardians, custodians or relatives by blood, marriage or adoption
for any part of the 24-hour day, in a place or residence other than a child’s
home.
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER  or CENTER. Includes:
      (1)   Any place in which child day-care is provided, with or without
compensation, for 13 or more children at one time; and
      (2)   Any place that is not the permanent residence of the licensee or
administration in which child day-care is provided, with or without
compensation, for seven to 12 children at one time.
   INFANT. A child who is less than 12 months of age, or a child who is at
least 12 months of age but is less than 18 months of age.
   PRESCHOOL CHILD.  A child who is three years old, or is four or five years
old, but is not a schoolchild.
   SCHOOLCHILD. A child who is enrolled in, or is eligible to be enrolled in, a
grade of kindergarten or above, but is less than 11 years old, or a child who
is at least 11 years old, but is less than 15 years old.
   TODDLER. A child who is at least 18 months of age but less than 30 months of
age, or a child who is at least 30 months of age but less than three years of
age.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME  or TYPE A HOME .
      (1)   A permanent residence of the administrator in which child day-care
is provided:
         A.   For seven to 12 children at one time, including any children
under six years of age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee
of the Type A home and who are on the premises of the Type A home; or
         B.   For four to 12 children at one time if four or more children at
one time are under two years of age, including any children under six years of
age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee of the Type A home
and who are on the premises of the Type A home.
      (2)   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME does not include a residence in which
the needs of the children are administered to, if all of the children whose
needs are being administered to are siblings of the same immediate family and
the residence is the home of the siblings.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.03  LICENSING OF DAY-CARE FACILITIES; FEES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a day-care facility as defined herein until
such person has obtained a license from the city to operate such facility. No
person shall provide care on a regular basis for two or more children, with or
without compensation, except in a licensed child care facility as defined
herein, or in a Type A home or other approved home or institution as defined in
the ordinances of the city.
   (b)   A written application for permission to establish and operate a day-
care facility shall be filed with the Mayor on a form prescribed by him or her.
When such application for a day-care facility license has been received, the
Mayor shall order the necessary inspections and investigations to determine the
advisability of the issuance of the requested license, and shall report his or
her findings and recommendations to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board of
Zoning Appeals shall thereafter either approve or disapprove the application
for such license. Upon approval of such application, the Mayor shall issue a
license to the owner or operator of the facility for the proper type of day-
care facility, listing on such license the name of the owner or operator, the
address of the approved location, the type of facility licensed, the authorized
average daily attendance for preschool and school age children and infants, and
other pertinent information.
   (c)   The license for any day-care facility or Type A home shall be valid
for two years after issuance. The application for renewal of a day-care
facility license shall be filed with the Mayor on a form provided for such
purpose not later than 60 days prior to the expiration date of the current
license. The renewal of such license shall be approved or disapproved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (d)   The Mayor shall have the power to suspend or revoke any license
granted under the provisions of this chapter if any of the following conditions
exists:
      (1)   If any false statement was made by the licensee in connection with
the application of such license or in the operation pursuant to such license;
      (2)   If the licensee fails or refuses to comply with any provision of
this chapter and with all other city ordinances and state laws applicable
thereto;
      (3)   If the building or premises for which such license has been issued
does not comply with all provisions of this chapter and of all other city
ordinances and state laws applicable thereto;
      (4)   If the licensee has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude;
      (5)   If the licensee has engaged in unfair, unjust, inequitable or
fraudulent practices;
      (6)   If the licensee has been determined by the Mayor to be a person
unfit by reason of immoral conduct to operate such licensed premises; or
      (7)   If the licensee has failed to provide adequately for the physical
and mental well-being of the children using the facility.
   (e)   The license for any day-care facility shall not be transferable.
   (f)   The fee for the inspection and license shall be $50 for a child care
center and $25 for a Type A home. This license shall be in effect for a two-
year period.
   (g)   (1)   Annual inspections shall be done by the city agent and shall
include one announced and one unannounced visit to a child care center or Type
A home.
      (2)   Fire inspection and approval shall be obtained in the following
circumstances: upon initial application for the license in division (b) above
and annually.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
717.99
§ 717.04  HOURS OF OPERATION; LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Child care centers and Type A homes may operate any part of the 24
hour day.
   (b)   No day-care facility shall be operated in any building used wholly or
in part for a business or commercial purpose, except with the approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (c)   If a dwelling unit, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance of the city, is
located in the same building as a child day-care center or day nursery, or the
building is shared by other persons or groups, the portion of the building to
which the children from the child day-care center or day nursery have access is
used only for child day-care during the hours that the child day-care center or
day nursery is in operation.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.05  BUILDING REQUIREMENTS; PLAY AREAS.
   (a)   (1)   All rooms used in the operation of a day-care facility shall be
adequately ventilated and free from drafts. In determining the adequacy of
ventilation, the area and volume of the rooms used shall be considered together
with the type of day-care facility, the number of children using such facility,
the location of doors and stairways, the aggregate openable areas of windows
ventilating such area and all other factors relating to ventilation.
      (2)   All rooms used in the operation of a day-care facility shall have
sufficient light therein for general day-care facility purposes. All areas used
for reading, writing, drawing and other similar close work shall be lighted to
a level of at least 20 foot- candles at work level.
      (3)   All day-care facilities shall be provided with approved heating
facilities capable of maintaining an average temperature of 70°F when the
outdoor temperature is -5°F without forcing the facilities to operate in excess
of their designed capacity. Sufficient heat shall be supplied in all rooms used
for day-care purposes to maintain an inside temperature of not less than 70°F
whenever the outside temperature falls below 50°F. Such inside temperature
shall be measured in the approximate center of each room approximately three
feet above the floor.
   (b)   Provisional use of basements for child care facilities shall be
allowed providing, and upon the full examination of the city’s agent, there is
adequate ventilation, lighting and means of egress.
   (c)   Each day-care facility shall be adequately supplied with hot and cold
water and toilet facilities within the building. There shall be a minimum of
one toilet for each ten children using any day-care facility.
   (d)   The child care center and Type A home shall have, for each child for
whom the center or home is licensed, at least 35 square feet of usable indoor
wall-to-wall floor space regularly available for the child day-care operation
exclusive of any parts of the structure in which child day-care is prohibited
by law or by rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards, Department of
Industrial Relations.
      (1)   (Except as noted in division (d)(2) below), usable indoor floor
space shall not include hallways, kitchens, storage areas or any other areas
not available for the care of children. Bathrooms shall be included only if
they are used exclusively by children enrolled in the center.
      (2)   Usable indoor floor space for the following centers may include
hallways, kitchens, storage areas, bathrooms not exclusively used by children
enrolled in the center and other areas not available for the care of children:
         A.   Centers or homes licensed on or before September 1, 1990 that are
issued a new license after that date;
         B.   Centers or homes licensed on or before September 1, 1990 that are
issued a new license after September 1, 1990, solely due to a
change of ownership of the center; and
         C.   Centers or homes licensed prior to September 1, 1990, that are
issued a new license on or after September 1, 1990, solely due to failure to
file a timely renewal application when the owner of the center submits an
application for license prior to the expiration of the current license.
      (3)   WALL-TO-WALL SPACE  means the total space in each area exclusive of
interior walls.
   (e)   The center or home shall provide an opportunity for supervised outdoor
play each day in suitable weather. The center shall have on-site or easily and
safely accessible a safe outdoor play space which is enclosed by a fence or
otherwise protected from traffic or other hazards. The outdoor play area shall
provide at least 60 square feet of usable space per child using the play area
at any one time, regardless of the number of children for which the facility is
authorized to serve. The city’s agent may exempt a center or Type A home from
the requirements of an outdoor play space if an outdoor play space is not
available, but there shall be regularly available and scheduled for use a
conveniently accessible and safe park, playground or similar outdoor play area.
The children shall be closely supervised during play and while traveling to and
from the area.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.06  SANITATION REQUIREMENTS; FOOD SERVICE LICENSE.
   (a)   All portions of every room used for day-care facility purposes shall
be kept in a clean, sanitary and healthful condition, free from dangerous or
noxious substances of any kind or any conditions that may, in the judgment of
the Department of Health, be harmful to the children.
   (b)   The common use of wash cloths, towels, bed linens, combs,
toothbrushes, hair brushes, drinking cups or other personal items or utensils
by the children shall be prohibited in any day-care facility. For purposes of
this section, COMMON USE  means the common use of personal items or utensils
without such items having been laundered, washed or otherwise restored to a
sanitary condition prior to subsequent use by another child.
   (c)   Each toddler, preschool and school age child shall sleep, rest or
otherwise occupy a separate cot or bed of safe and adequate construction. A COT
means a narrow bed made of washable material. The bottom of the cot’s sleeping
surface shall stand at least three inches and not more than 18 inches off the
floor. The cot shall be firm enough to support the child well, but shall be
resilient under pressure. The cot’s material shall be easily disinfectable.
Each cot shall be at least 36 inches in length and at least as long as the
child assigned to the cot is tall. A NAP-TIME PROGRAM  means any period of time
in the daily schedule when children are expected to rest and sleep. No child
shall be permitted to sleep on the floor.
   (d)   The weekly menus shall be posted by Monday of each week in a
conspicuous place where city officials and interested persons may observe it.
Any preschool or school age child who is in attendance for the full day shall
be served a minimum of one snack which provides nutritional value in addition
to calories during the longest between-meals period. The food and beverages
served to children in any day-care facility shall be clean, adequate, suitable
and sufficient for the child’ s consumption. Proper appliances for the cooking
and refrigeration of food shall be maintained in good working condition at all
times. All nipples, bottles and other containers used in such facility for the
preparation or serving of food and drink shall be kept thoroughly clean and
sterilized at all times.
   (e)   Every child day-care center and day nursery shall apply to and receive
from the city a food service license before such day-care facility is open for
use. A standard fee schedule shall apply for all licensed child care facilities
and Type A homes.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.07  CARE OF INFANTS.
   In addition to complying with the provisions of this chapter which relate to
the care of children in child care facilities and Type A homes in general, the
following minimum requirements shall be complied with in any child care
facility or Type A home which provides child care for infants as defined in
this chapter.
   (a)   The infants shall receive care in a room or rooms apart from the
school age children.
   (b)   The infants’ maximum group size is 12 for center-based care and for
Type A homes.
   (c)   Formulas should be prepared by the parents if possible. No infant
shall be placed in his or her crib with a bottle for feeding and at no time
shall a bottle be propped for an infant. If a formula or infant food is
prepared at the child care center or Type A home, it shall be prepared in
accordance with written instructions from the parents or the physician in
charge of the infant and by a technique approved by the Department of Health.
All formulas shall be clearly labeled and properly stored or refrigerated until
used.
   (d)   Each infant shall sleep or otherwise occupy a separate crib of safe
and adequate construction, with closely spaced bars, a firm mattress securely
covered with a waterproof material not dangerous to the infant and clean crib
sheets. There shall be no restraining devices of any type used in cribs. The
minimum space between cribs when in use shall be two feet.
   (e)   There shall be a place in the day-care facility where soiled diapers
shall be kept separate and apart from rooms used for general day-care facility
purposes. Provision shall be made for the sanitary treatment and control of all
soiled diapers. The changing, storing and laundering of diapers shall be
handled in accordance with methods approved by the Department of Health.
   (f)   To the extent possible, infants shall be cared for primarily by the
same adult each day. Each infant shall be removed from his or her crib and held
or placed in a chair for all feedings, and removed from the crib at other
intervals during the day for individual attention. Each infant shall be allowed
to safely and comfortably sit, according to his or her stage of development, in
a space apart from sleeping quarters each day.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.08  HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   A child isolated due to suspected communicable disease shall be cared
for in a room or portion of a room not being used for other types of child
care, within sight and hearing of an adult at all times. No child shall ever be
left alone or unsupervised.
   (b)   (1)   Every day-care facility shall have a current list of names,
addresses and telephone numbers where each child’s parents, guardians or other
persons designated by the parents or guardians in writing can be contacted in
the event of injury, illness or other emergency condition of a child. In the
event of such injury, illness or emergency condition of a child, the parents,
guardians or other designated persons shall be immediately contacted by the
operator of the day-care facility. For this purpose, a telephone shall be
maintained in working condition at all times in every day-care facility. A
child who becomes ill during the day shall be discharged to the care of his or
her parents as promptly as possible.
      (2)   Every day-care facility shall have a written plan to cover medical
emergencies, using the services of a physician or hospital, and including
transportation of the child to the source of medical assistance, if necessary.
First aid supplies and a person trained in first aid by a doctor or nurse,
having completed a course in first aid which is approved by the Department of
Health, shall be available at all times that the center is in operation.
      (3)   A person trained to recognize the common signs of communicable
disease or illness shall observe each child daily before he or she enters a
group. Any child who is suspected of having a communicable disease shall be
isolated immediately in a space set aside for isolation and care of a sick
child. An adult shall be at all times within sight or hearing of a child who is
isolated because of illness.
   (c)   No child shall be admitted to any day-care facility unless such child
has received a medical examination by a licensed physician not more than 30
days prior to admission, and annually thereafter. The written results of each
child’s medical examination certifying that the child is free from communicable
disease, including tuberculosis, and that the child has had the immunizations
required for general health purposes, shall be kept on file by the day-care
facility and shall be made available to any city official upon request.
   (d)   No person working in or in charge of any day-care facility shall
administer medication, vitamins or special diets to any child, except by the
written, signed and dated instructions of a licensed physician prescribed for
that specific child. Every day-care facility shall have available to it not
less than two physicians who may be called in the event of injury, medical
emergency or illness of any child.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.09  PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   (1)   CHILD CARE STAFF MEMBER means any employee of a child care
center or child care family home who is primarily responsible for the care and
supervision of children. The administrator may be a part-time staff member when
not involved in other duties.
      (2)   Any child care staff member shall be at least 18 years of age, and
shall have at least a high school education or shall have completed a training
program approved by the state’s Department of Human Services or the state’s
Board of Education. A child care staff member may be less than 18 years of age
if he or she is a graduate of a two-year vocational child care training program
approved by the state’s Board of Education.
      (3)   The administrator is responsible for the daily operation of the
child care center/home program and for implementing the licensee’s plan for
compliance with this chapter. The administrator shall have completed at least
two years of training in an accredited college, university or technical
college, including the completion of courses in child development or early
childhood education, or shall have at least two years’ experience in
supervising and giving daily care to children attending an organized group
program.
   (b)   The administrator and all child care staff members of any child care
center or family home provider shall be of good character and be mentally and
physically able to perform the duties which are required. At all times there
shall be no less than two staff members available on the premises of the child
care facility, except that in the case of a child care home, there shall be no
less than one staff member on the premises. The Type A home shall maintain the
following child/staff ratios and group sizes.
      (1)   No more than 12 children, including any children under six years of
age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee of the Type A home
and who are on the premises of the Type A home, shall be in attendance in the
Type A home.
      (2)   The maximum number of children per child care staff member in the
Type A home at any one time shall not be greater than six children to one child
care staff member. One care giver may care for children according to the
following age combinations.
 
Infants Toddlers, Preschool Children or Schoolchildren
0       6
1       5
2       4
3       3
4       0
 
   (c)   The maximum number of children per child care staff member and maximum
group size by age category of children for center-based programs, are as
follows.
Age Category of Children Maximum Number of Children Per Maximum Group Size
                         Child Care Staff Member
Age Category of Children      Maximum Number of Children Per Maximum Group Size
                              Child Care Staff Member
Infants
Less than 12 months old       5:1, or 12:2 if two child care 12
                              staff members are in the room
At least 12 months old, but   6:1                            12
less than 18 months old
Toddlers
At least 18 months old, but   7:1                            14
less than 30 months old
At least 30 months old, but   8:1                            16
less than three years old
Preschool children
Three years old               12:1                           24
Four years old and five years
old who are not               14:1                           28
schoolchildren
Schoolchildren
A child who is enrolled in or
is eligible to be enrolled in
a grade of kindergarten or    18:1                           36
above, but is less than 11
years old
Eleven through 14 year old    20:1                           40
children
 
   (d)   All persons working in any child care facility or child care home
shall be examined by a licensed physician not more than 30 days before
employment, and the written results of such person’s medical examination shall
be kept at the center or home and shall certify such person to be:
      (1)   Free from communicable disease, including tuberculosis;
      (2)   Immunized against measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus and diphtheria,
except for persons born on or before December 31, 1956; and
      (3)   Physically fit for employment in a facility caring for young
children. Medical statements shall bear the date of the examination and the
signature, business address and telephone number of the licensed physician who
completed the examination.
   (e)   The administrator or the person in charge of the child care facility
or child care home shall interview each child and his or her parent/s or
guardian prior to admission, and supply the parents or guardian with
information concerning the program and activities of the center or home and
provide an opportunity for parents or guardian to observe the operation of such
child care program during reasonable hours while it is in operation.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.10  RECORDS.
   In addition to keeping all records required by other sections of this
chapter, all day-care facilities shall keep as a record at such facility, and
shall furnish to the city upon request, a roster of the names and addresses of
all personnel working at such day-care facility, together with the names,
addresses and birth dates of all children presently enrolled in a center or
home.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.11  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL REQUIREMENTS.
   All licensed child day-care facilities and Type A homes shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter and shall further comply with all other
ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, and with laws, rules and
regulations of the state.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.12  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; REGULATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals for this chapter.
The Board may adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to put into effect the provisions of this chapter. Where practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships will result from the strict compliance
with or the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the Board shall have
the power to grant variances in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and to secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the
promotion of the public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and
general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.13  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of any city official made
in the enforcement of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board
of Zoning. Appeals from such decision within ten days from the date notice of
such decision was given or mailed to him or her and to appear before the Board
at a time and place fixed by such Board. Such appeal shall be in writing.
Failure to file a written appeal with the Board within the time prescribed
shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. The Board shall have the
power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of such city official.
   (b)   (1)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board shall
also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision within ten days
from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to the appellant and
to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by Council. Such appeal
shall be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with Council within the
time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. Council shall
have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of the Board.
      (2)   Should Council, after the hearing provided for herein, determine
that the continued operation of a day-care facility will be dangerous or
injurious to the health and well-being of the children using such facility and
order the revocation of the license to operate such facility, then no stay of
execution of this determination shall be had by appeal to any court of law or
equity and such day-care facility shall be closed immediately.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.14  REMEDY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the Director of Law or his
or her assistants from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a
court of proper jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or prevent the use of a building, temporarily or permanently, for
day-care purposes, or to require compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or orders
or determinations of any city official, the Board of Building Code Appeals or
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.15  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Notwithstanding the existence of any other remedies, penalties or legal
actions provided for herein, if the Mayor determines that an emergency
condition exists in the community or at the day-care facility location, which
is immediately hazardous to the health or well-being of the children attending
such facility, the Mayor shall order the day-care facility immediately closed
and shall post thereon, in a conspicuous place, a sign closing such day-care
facility until further direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.16  INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, any officer or
inspector of the city shall have authority to enter any premises for the
purpose of making an inspection thereof. Any owner, agent or occupant thereof
who refuses to permit such officer or inspector to enter such premises for the
purpose of such inspection, or who hinders him or her in such inspection, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.17  PROVIDER’S RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   An administrator of a child care center or Type A home has the right to
refuse or terminate a visit from the city agent if the administrator feels he
or she is being harassed and/or intimidated by the visiting city agent. The
administrator shall then contact the appropriate city department for
documentation and to arrange for another inspection.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 717.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 60-90, passed 6-19-1990)
CHAPTER 719:  TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES
Section
719.01   Purpose
719.02   Definitions
719.03   Registration
719.04   Compliance investigation
719.05   Fire safety
719.06   Indoor space
719.07   Outdoor space
719.08   Provider qualifications
719.09   Group size
719.10   Discipline
719.11   Compliance with lawful requirements
719.12   Board of Zoning Appeals; regulations and variances
719.13   Appeal procedure
719.14   Remedy for violations
719.15   Emergency action
719.16   Inspection; right of entry
719.17   Provider’s right of refusal
 
719.99   Penalty
§ 719.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the registration,
licensing and regulation of Type B family day-care homes in order to insure the
best possible care for the children using such family day-care homes or Type B
child care facility.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARETAKER PARENT and PARENT.  A father or mother who is normally needed to
remain home to care for his or her child or children or a person who has
permanent or temporary custody of a child and who is needed to remain home to
care for the child.
   CHILD. Includes an infant, toddler, preschool child or schoolchild.
      (1)   INFANT . A child who is under 18 months of age.
      (2)   TODDLER . A child who is at least 18 months of age but is less than
three years of age.
      (3)   PRESCHOOL CHILD . A child who is three years old, or four or five
years old, but is not a schoolchild.
      (4)   SCHOOLCHILD . A child who is enrolled in or is eligible to be
enrolled in a grade of kindergarten or above, but who is less than 15 years
old.
   CHILD DAY-CARE SERVICES.  Administering to the needs of infants, toddlers,
preschool children and schoolchildren outside of school hours by persons other
than their parents or guardians, custodians or relatives by blood, marriage or
adoption for any part of the 24-hour day in a place or residence other than a
child’s own home.
   CHILD DAY-CARE SERVICES  or PUBLICLY FUNDED CHILD DAY-CARE SERVICES.
Administering to the needs of infants, toddlers, preschool children and
schoolchildren for any part of the 24-hour day by persons other than their
caretaker parents for payment, wholly or in part, with federal or state moneys
distributed by the Department of Human Services.
   FIELD TRIPS.  Infrequent or irregularly scheduled excursions from the
certified Type B home.
   FOOD SUPPLEMENT.  A vitamin, mineral or combination of one or more vitamins,
minerals and/or energy-producing nutrients (carbohydrate, protein or fat) used
in addition to meals or snacks.
   HANDICAPPED CHILD.  A child who has been identified as not functioning
according to age-appropriate expectations in the areas of affective, cognitive,
communicative, perceptual-motor, physical or social development to such an
extent that the child may require special help, program adjustments and/or
related services on a regular basis, in order to function in an adaptive
manner.
   MEDICATION. Any substance or preparation which is used for the purpose of
prevention or treatment of an injury, illness or disease.
   MODIFIED DIET.  Any diet eliminating the use of any one or more of the four
food groups or altering the amount of food required to be served to meet one-
third of the recommended daily dietary allowance.
   PROVIDER. A person 18 years of age or older who operates a Type B family
day-care home.
   RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Fathers, mothers, grandfathers, grandmothers, brothers, sisters,
stepfathers, stepmothers, stepbrothers, stepsisters, uncles, aunts, nephews,
nieces, half brothers, half sisters, first cousins or any persons of preceding
generations denoted by the prefix grand-, great- or great-great-;
      (2)   Any person who legally adopted the child or adopted the child’s
parent, or the natural children or other adopted children of such person; and
      (3)   Spouses of any person named above, even through the marriage has
been terminated by death or divorce.
   ROUTINE TRIPS . Frequent or regularly scheduled excursions from the Type B
home. ROUTINE TRIPS include, but are not limited to, taking a child to school,
picking up a child from school or daily errands of the provider.
   TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME, TYPE B HOME AND HOME.  A permanent residence of
the provider in which child day-care or child day-care services are provided
for one to six children at one time and in which no more than three children
may be under two years of age at one time.
      (1)   In counting children for the purpose of this rule, any children
under six years of age who are related to the provider and who are on the
premises of the Type B home shall be counted. Children six years of age or
older who are related to the provider and who are on the premises of the Type B
home shall not be included in this court.
      (2)   A TYPE B HOME  also includes a home which is the permanent
residence of both the provider and the parent.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.03  REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Every individual desiring to operate a Type B family day-care home
shall register with the city.
   (b)   An individual may submit an application to the Building Inspector or
his or her agent or by a city agent assigned by the Mayor to issue and receive
applications and to act upon processing same in compliance with law.
   (c)   Upon filing, the applicant shall agree to cooperate with the city’s
agent and comply with minimum health and safety standards.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.04  COMPLIANCE INVESTIGATION.
   (a)   The city shall:
      (1)   Inspect each home prior to the initial issuance of a permit and
annually thereafter; and
      (2)   Investigate and may inspect a home upon receipt of a complaint that
the home is not in compliance.
         A.   If the complaint alleges an immediate risk to children or if the
complaint alleges child abuse or neglect, the city agent shall immediately
report the complaint to the County Department of Human Services at 696-KIDS.
         B.   Investigation of all complaints shall begin within five working
days of receipt of a complaint.
   (b)   A provider has the right to refuse or terminate a visit from the city
agent if he or she feels that he or she is being harassed and/or intimidated by
the visiting city agent. The provider shall then contact the appropriate city
department for documentation and to arrange for another inspection.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.05  FIRE SAFETY.
   (a)   Each home shall have emergency exit capacity as outlined below.
      (1)   All floors used for child day-care shall have a primary escape
route which provides a safe path for travel to the outside of the building.
When the floor is above or below ground level, the primary escape route shall
be an interior stairway or an exterior stairway.
      (2)   In addition to the primary escape route, each floor used for child
day-care shall have an alternate means of escape. This includes either of the
following:
         A.   A door or stairway providing a means of unobstructed travel to
the outside of the building at the ground level; or
         B.   An outside window operable without the use of tools which
provides an opening large enough for a person to get through. The lower edge of
the window shall not be more than 44 inches above the floor or a platform which
is firmly attached to the floor or wall under the escape window.
      (3)   If the floor used for child day-care is used for napping or
sleeping purposes, the alternate means of escape shall include either of the
following:
         A.   A door or stairway providing a means of unobstructed travel to
the door outside of the building at ground level; or
         B.   An exterior window operable without the use of tools which
provides a minimum clear opening of 5.7 square feet in area. The lower edge of
the window shall not be more than 44 inches above the floor or a platform which
is firmly attached to the floor or wall under the escape window.
      (4)   No room or space that is accessible only by a ladder, folding
stairs or through a trapdoor shall be used for child day-care.
      (5)   All stairs shall be lighted so that each step can be clearly seen
while going up and down stairs.
      (6)   All hallways, corridors, ramps and passageways leading to an exit
shall be adequately lighted by natural or artificial light. When artificial
light is used, lighting shall be provided with at least a 60-watt bulb.
      (7)   Doorways, corridors and stairs which are part of the primary or
alternate escape route shall be kept clear of obstructions such as, but not
limited to, toys, clothing, snow, ice, accumulated trash and assorted debris.
   (b)   Each home shall meet the following fire evacuation requirements:
      (1)   The provider shall have a written fire evacuation plan which
consists of a floor plan marked with a primary escape route and an alternate
escape route to a designated meeting place outside the home.
      (2)   The provider shall practice the fire evacuation plan at least once
each month at different times of the day. The date and time of day of each
practice shall be kept in a written log.
      (3)   The written fire evacuation plan and log of practice fire drills
shall be available for review by the city agent.
   (c)   Storage of flammable and combustible materials and substances, such
as, but not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, fuel, rubbing alcohol, furniture
polish and wax, rubber and contact cements, paints, thinners and strippers,
shall be as follows.
      (1)   No gasoline, kerosene or fuels shall be stored in the home.
      (2)   Flammable and combustible materials and substances shall be:
         A.   Stored in their original containers;
         B.   Kept in closed storage;
         C.   Stored out of the reach of children; and
         D.   Stored away from heaters, furnaces, water heaters and gas
appliances.
      (3)   Flammable and combustible materials and substances shall not be
stored below the first floor.
   (d)   There shall be at least one UL or FM smoke detector located in the
basement and on each level. The provider shall place, install, test and
maintain smoke detectors in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations.
   (e)   There shall be at least one UL or FM, portable fire extinguisher in
the home which shall have a minimum rating of 1A 10BC. At least one fire
extinguisher shall be located in the kitchen of the home.
   (f)   Upon discovery of a fire on the premises, the provider shall
immediately notify the local fire department to request their assistance even
if a home fire extinguisher has been used to put out the fire.
   (g)   Unvented fuel-fired heaters shall not be used while child day-care is
being provided. When vented gas, oil or wood-fired heaters are used, a guard
shall be provided for each heater, stove or fireplace to protect the children
from hot surfaces and open flames.
   (h)   All electrical connections shall be made in junction boxes which are
properly covered. Electrical extension cords shall not be used as permanent
wiring.
   (i)   The provider shall install childproof protective covers for all
electrical outlets in all areas of the home where children are present.
   (j)   The provider shall notify the city within one working day after a fire
or natural disaster has occurred in the home.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.06  INDOOR SPACE.
   (a)   The provider’s home shall have at least 35 square feet of wall-to-wall
floor space for every child on the premises.
   (b)   Floor space in bathrooms, hallways, laundry rooms, furnace rooms,
storage areas or any other areas not available for the care of children shall
not be included in this measurement.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.07  OUTDOOR SPACE.
   (a)   Each home shall have an outdoor play space which is safe, free from
hazards, located away from traffic and is available on the premises or is
easily and safely accessible to the home.
   (b)   The outdoor play space shall provide at least 60 square feet of usable
space per child for the maximum number of children using the play space at one
time.
   (c)   The outdoor play space shall be located away from traffic or other
hazards or protected by a fence, hedge or other natural barrier approved by the
city.
   (d)   Outdoor play space shall be free from hazards such as, but not limited
to, standing water, open drainage ditches, broken glass, tools and construction
materials, garbage, flammable materials and other debris.
   (e)   The provider shall arrange for supervised outdoor play each day in
suitable weather.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.08  PROVIDER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (a)   The provider shall be at least 18 years of age.
   (b)   Any individual whose behavior or health endangers the health, safety
and well-being of children shall not be present or reside in the home.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.09  GROUP SIZE.
   (a)   The provider may provide child day-care for no more than six children
at any one time. In determining the total number of children who may be in
care:
      (1)   No more than three children may be under two years of age;
      (2)   Children under six years of age, related or unrelated to the
provider, shall be included in the total of six;
      (3)   Children six years of age or older, not related to the provider,
shall be included in the total of six; and
      (4)   Children six years of age or older who are related to the provider
do not need to be included in the total of six.
   (b)   The total of six shall include all children as outlined above,
including children who are on the premises and whose parents are not also
present, whether or not the provider receives reimbursement for the care of
these children.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.10  DISCIPLINE.
   (a)   The provider is responsible for ensuring that reasonable,
developmentally appropriate child guidance and management techniques are
followed at all times for all children in the home.
   (b)   No cruel, harsh, physical or unusual punishments shall be permitted.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.11  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL REQUIREMENTS.
   All licensed child day-care facilities and Type B homes shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter and shall further comply with all other
ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, and with laws, rules and
regulations of the state.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.12  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; REGULATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals for this chapter.
The Board may adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to put into effect the provisions of this chapter. Where practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships will result from the strict compliance
with or the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the Board shall have
the power to grant variances in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and to secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the
promotion of the public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and
general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.13  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of any city official made
in the enforcement of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals from such decision within ten days from the date notice of
such decision was given or mailed to him or her and to appear before the Board
at a time and place fixed by such Board. Such appeal shall be in writing.
Failure to file a written appeal with the Board within the time prescribed
shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. The Board shall have the
power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of such city official.
   (b)   (1)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board shall
also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision within ten days
from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to the appellant and
to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by Council. Such appeal
shall be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with Council within the
time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. Council shall
have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of the Board.
      (2)   Should Council, after the hearing provided for herein, determine
that the continued operation of a day-care facility will be dangerous or
injurious to the health and well-being of the children using such facility and
order the revocation of the license to operate such facility, then no stay of
execution of this determination shall be had by appeal to any court of law or
equity and such day-care facility shall be closed immediately.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.14  REMEDY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the Director of Law or his
or her assistants from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a
court of proper jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or prevent the use of a building, temporarily or permanently, for
day-care purposes, or to require compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or orders
or determinations of any city official, the Board of Building Code Appeals or
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.15  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Notwithstanding the existence of any other remedies, penalties or legal
actions provided for herein, if the Mayor determines that an emergency
condition exists in the community or at the day-care facility location, which
is immediately hazardous to the health or well-being of the children attending
such facility, the Mayor shall order the day-care facility immediately closed
and shall post thereon, in a conspicuous place, a sign closing such day-care
facility until further direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.16  INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, any officer or
inspector of the city shall have authority to enter any premises for the
purpose of making an inspection thereof. Any owner, agent or occupant thereof
who refuses to permit such officer or inspector to enter such premises for the
purpose of such inspection, or who hinders him or her in such inspection, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
719.99
§ 719.17  PROVIDER’S RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   An administrator of a child care center or Type A home has the right to
refuse or terminate a visit from the city agent if the administrator feels he
or she is being harassed and/or intimidated by the visiting city agent. The
administrator shall then contact the appropriate city department for
documentation and to arrange for another inspection.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 719.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 61-90, passed 6-19-1990)
CHAPTER 721:  MINIATURE GAMES AND DEVICES
Section
721.01   License required
721.02   Licensing standards; approval or rejection
721.03   License revocation or suspension
721.04   Issuance of license; fee
721.05   Distributor’s license; fee
 
721.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bowling alleys; billiard rooms and poolrooms, see
Ch. 709
   Devices for gambling prohibited, see
Ch. 517
§ 721.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity shall possess,
operate or maintain a miniature bowling alley, shuffle board, shuffle skill or
other similar game, device or jukebox within the city unless a license has been
duly issued by the Mayor for the operation of such game, device or jukebox in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   All licenses granted pursuant to this chapter shall be posted at all
times on the premises where such game or device is located, and such license is
nontransferable except in accordance with the provisions of §
721.04.
   (c)   PERSON in this chapter, in addition to the common law definition of
person as established in the case law and by statute, means any individual,
corporation, partnership, association or other entity possessing, operating or
maintaining miniature games or devices or distributing miniature games or
devices, and to which the provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 517 apply.
(Ord. 7422, passed 6-24-1980)  Penalty, see §
721.99
§ 721.02  LICENSING STANDARDS; APPROVAL OR REJECTION.
   The Mayor will, on forms furnished by the city, elicit the information set
forth in this section of the applicant for a license, and of the premises
wherein the games herein specified are to be operated. The Mayor shall have
authority to approve or reject any application for a license, in accordance
with the guidelines and standards set forth hereinafter.
   (a)   License required. The application shall be made and such license shall
be issued upon forms furnished by the city, and no person, firm, corporation or
other entity shall distribute, have or operate any miniature game or device,
whether such device be mechanically operated, or manually operated without the
having of a valid license or licenses issued by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Application for license; standards. Any person, firm, corporation,
partnership or other entity desiring a license or licenses under this chapter
and under
Chapter 517 shall file a written application with the Mayor on a form to be
furnished by him or her. The applicant shall accompany the application with a
tender of the correct permit fee as hereinafter provided and shall, in
addition, furnish the following:
      (1)   The type of ownership of the business (i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise);
      (2)   The name, style and designation under which the business or
practice is to be conducted;
      (3)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business
is to be conducted;
      (4)   A complete list of the names and resident addresses and phone
numbers of the manager, or other person or persons principally in charge of the
operation of the business, with periodic updates of same;
      (5)   Such other information and identification of the person as shall be
deemed necessary by the Mayor to discover the truth of the matters hereinabove
required to be set forth in the application;
      (6)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the permit
and to ascertain the condition of the premises where the devices will be
located and used;
      (7)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury that
the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct,
such declaration being duly dated and signed in the city;
      (8)   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon or in which the business is to be conducted and a copy of this lease or
rental agreement. This division (b)(8) shall not apply to distributors as
referred to under §
721.05.
   (c)   Issuance or denial of license. The Mayor shall issue a license or
licenses within a reasonable time following receipt of the application unless
he or she finds that:
      (1)   The correct license fee has not been tendered to the city, and in
the case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation;
      (2)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would
not comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city’s
building, zoning and health regulations;
      (3)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of fact in the license application or in any document
required by the city in conjunction therewith;
      (4)   The applicant has had a business where miniature games or devices
were used and a permit or license denied, revoked or suspended for any of the
above causes by the city or other state or local agency within five years prior
to the date of the application;
      (5)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the general partners,
if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other person principally
in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of 18 years;
and
      (6)   The Chief of Police shall also make his or her recommendation to
the Mayor and following approval by the Mayor, and subject to the provision
that the applicant shall comply with all the provisions of this chapter, a
license shall be issued.
   (d)   License suspension or revocation; appeal. The Mayor shall have the
power to suspend or revoke any license granted under the provisions of this
chapter if any of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   If any false statement shall have been made by the licensee in
connection with the application for such license or in the operation pursuant
to such license;
      (2)   If the licensee shall fail or refuse to comply with any provision
of this chapter and with all other city ordinances and state laws applicable
thereto;
      (3)   If the building or premises for which such license has been issued
does not comply with all provisions of this chapter and of all other city
ordinances and state laws applicable thereto;
      (4)   If the licensee shall have been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude;
      (5)   If the licensee shall have engaged in unfair, unjust, inequitable
or fraudulent practices;
      (6)   If the licensee shall have been determined by the Mayor to be a
person unfit by reason of immoral conduct, to operate such licensed premises;
      (7)   If in the operation of the games herein licensed there has been a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinances
passed in the furtherance of the public health, safety or general welfare, or
if the games herein specified shall be operated in any way, manner or form as a
gambling device or as a game of chance, or if any license has been transferred
without the consent of the city. In the event of such revocation or suspension
of the license, there shall be no refund of the paid license fee for the
unexpired term of such license; and/or
      (8)   An applicant to whom a license has been issued if found to be in
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter or an applicant or licensee
whose premises is found to constitute a haven for juveniles contrary to the
city’s curfew ordinance, shall be deemed as engaging in conduct which may
result in having the license or licenses revoked by the Mayor.
   (e)   Board of Zoning Appeals; powers and duties. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals for this chapter. The Board of Zoning
Appeals may adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to put into effect the provisions of this chapter. Where practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships will result from the strict compliance
with or the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the Board shall have
the power to grant variance in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and to secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the
promotion of the public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and
general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 7422, passed 6-24-1980)
§ 721.03  LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor shall have the power to revoke or suspend any license issued in
accordance with this chapter whenever, in the operation of the games herein
licensed, there has been a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
or any other ordinance passed in the furtherance of the public health, safety
or general welfare, or if the games herein specified shall be operated in any
way, manner or form as a gambling device or as a game of chance, or if any
license has been transferred without the consent of the city. In the event of
such revocation or suspension of the license, there shall be no refund of the
paid license fee for the unexpired term of such license.
(Ord. 5280, passed 9-20-1960)
§ 721.04  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE: FEE.
   Upon the approval of an application and upon the payment of the annual
license fee of $100 per and for each separate hand operated or mechanical
amusement device, $25 per jukebox, and none for a cigarette vending machine, a
license to display one mechanical amusement device, cigarette vending machine
or jukebox shall be issued to the applicant. Such license fee shall be for the
fiscal year beginning January 1 of the calendar year or for any unexpired
portion of any such fiscal year. Such license shall entitle the licensee
therein named to display at or upon the premises therein described one
mechanical device, for each separate license, or one hand or manually operated
miniature game or device, for each separate license.
(Ord. 7598, passed 10-26-1982)
§ 721.05  DISTRIBUTOR’S LICENSE: FEE.
   No person shall distribute mechanical amusement devices, jukeboxes or
cigarette vending machines within the corporate limits by lease, conditional
sale or any financial conditional method, a distributor also being known as an
operator, without first having obtained a distributor’s license therefor from
the Mayor upon payment of the annual license fee of $100. This license fee
shall be for the fiscal year beginning January 1 of the calendar year or for
any unexpired portion of any such fiscal year. Nothing in this section shall be
intended to prohibit any person or the owner of a place of business to purchase
such mechanical amusement device outright from any source, provided compliance
is made for the annual license as herein set forth and upon presentation of a
bill of sale therefor.
(Ord. 7602, passed 11-3-1982)
§ 721.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. Each
separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 729:  SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS
Section
729.01   Solicitor defined
729.02   License required; exhibition and signature upon demand
729.03   Application; investigation; license issuance and term
729.04   General license for nonprofit organization; individual authorization
card
729.05   License fees; insurance
729.06   License revocation
729.07   Licensing exceptions
729.08   Parking or traffic violations
729.09   Limitation on hours and days
729.10   Disturbing the peace
729.11   License nontransferable and terms of use
729.12   Sale of articles for human consumption
729.13   Trespassing
729.14   Walking on lawns or through hedges prohibited
729.15   Chapter purpose; violations a nuisance
 
729.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1716
   Falsely described merchandise, see §
503.05
   Parking vehicles, see
Ch. 351
   Power to regulate, see Ohio R.C. 715.61 et seq.
   Trespass, see §
541.05
§ 729.01  SOLICITOR DEFINED.
   SOLICITOR, as used in this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly
appears from the context, includes and means all persons, firms, associations
or corporations, including those known as peddlers, canvassers, hawkers and
junk dealers, who sell, barter, exchange or offer for sale, barter or exchange,
for immediate or future delivery, any goods, wares, merchandise or other
articles of personal property, or take, or attempt to take orders for the sale
of goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of personal property, and all
persons, firms, associations or corporations who canvass or solicit gifts,
donations, subscriptions or pledges of cash or other articles of value.
§ 729.02  LICENSE REQUIRED; EXHIBITION AND SIGNATURE UPON DEMAND.
   No person shall engage in the business of a solicitor within the city
without first having procured a license therefor from the Mayor. Each licensee
shall have his or her license with him or her at all times while engaged in the
business of soliciting in the city, and shall exhibit it to any police officer
or other city official upon demand. Each licensee shall, upon demand by any
police officer or other city official, sign his or her name for comparison with
the signature upon his or her license or license application.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.03  APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION; LICENSE ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of a solicitor shall make
application in person for a license at the City Hall, upon a form provided by
the Mayor. The Mayor, after a thorough investigation and upon being furnished
with sufficient proof that such person is of good moral character and that
there is no misrepresentation about, or fraud, flaw or imperfection in, his or
her application or in the article or purpose of his or her solicitation, shall,
within a reasonable time, issue to such applicant a license for the remainder
of the calendar year in which such license is issued.
§ 729.04  GENERAL LICENSE FOR NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION; INDIVIDUAL AUTHORIZATION
CARD.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby given the option of issuing one license to cover
all solicitors who, without compensation or remuneration, solicit only in
behalf of and for any locally or publicly recognized religious, educational,
civic or other charitable organization, instead of requiring an individual
license for each solicitor.
   (b)   Where a general license is issued for one organization instead of an
individual license for each solicitor, such organization may be required by the
Mayor to issue to each such solicitor doing business in the city a written and
uniform authorization and identification in such form as shall be satisfactory
to the Mayor. Each such solicitor shall have such written authorization with
him or her at all times while exercising his or her calling, and shall exhibit
it to any police officer or city official upon demand.
§ 729.05  LICENSE FEES; INSURANCE.
   A solicitor or peddler shall pay to the city the fee hereinafter designated
for a peddler or solicitor’s license for each calendar year or fraction
thereof.
   (a)   Subject to the exceptions hereinafter specified, any solicitor or
peddler shall pay a fee of $25 if the solicitor or peddler engages in the
activity of soliciting or peddling for a period of five days or less during any
portion or period of the year from January 1 to December 31.
   (b)   Except as otherwise hereinafter qualified, any solicitor or peddler
who engages in the activity of soliciting or peddling within the municipal
boundaries of the city for a period exceeding five days or on a continuous,
seasonal or annual basis, to avoid repeated payment of the fee as prescribed in
division (a) above, shall pay a one-time annual solicitor or peddler’s fee in
the amount of $150.
   (c)   An ice cream peddler or solicitor shall pay the annual fee of $150,
plus $25 for each truck, when the activity of soliciting or peddling is engaged
in for any period and notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (a) and (b)
above.
   (d)   Any solicitor or peddler seeking a license under this section shall be
required to submit an application for said license accompanied by a policy of
public liability insurance indicating that the applicant is insured to the
extent of $50,000 for personal injury to one person, $100,000 for personal
injury to more than one person, and property damage to the extent of at least
$5,000 for damage to one article of property and not less than $10,000 for
damage to more than one article of property.
   (e)   If such application is disapproved, the Mayor shall notify the
applicant of such disapproval. One-half of the fee paid with the application
shall be retained by the city to defray the costs of the inspection and the
balance shall be returned to the applicant.
   (f)   For purposes of this section, a PEDDLER or SOLICITOR shall have the
meaning as defined in §
729.01.
(Ord. 70-94, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 729.06  LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The Mayor may at any time revoke the license of any person who fails or
refuses to comply with the terms of, or violates any provision of, this chapter
or who is guilty of any misconduct, fraud, cheating or misrepresentation in his
or her application for a license, or who, in the conduct of his or her business
as a solicitor, is found guilty of violating, or fails or refuses to comply
with, any regulation or ordinance of the city or of any state law.
§ 729.07  LICENSING EXCEPTIONS.
   No license provided for herein shall be required for solicitors engaged in
the following activities:
   (a)   For solicitors under the age of 18 years who sell soap, candy or other
wares of a religious, educational, civic or other charitable organization; or
   (b)   For solicitors who solicit only for wholesale delivery to merchants,
manufacturers or other business persons at their places of business, or who
solicit only from professional individuals, merchants, manufacturers or other
business persons at their offices or places of business or factories, the sale
of equipment or other articles of personal property used in the conduct of
their respective professions, businesses or manufacturing establishments.
§ 729.08  PARKING OR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   A solicitor, while engaged in the business of a solicitor, shall not violate
the parking laws or regulations of the city or any provision of the city’s
Traffic Code.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.09  LIMITATION ON HOURS AND DAYS.
   No solicitor shall solicit on the streets of the city, or in or upon private
property, before the hours of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 5:00 p.m. or on
Sundays or any legal holiday.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.10  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No solicitor, while engaged in the business of a solicitor, shall go upon
the streets, alleys or other public places of the city, or in or upon private
property, crying out, or making any loud or objectionable noises by any device,
or blowing any horn or other such instrument.
§ 729.11  LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE AND TERMS OF USE.
   No solicitor’s license issued under the terms of this chapter shall in any
manner be assignable or transferable, nor shall any licensee authorize any
person to use such license other than the one named therein to do business, nor
shall a licensee conduct any other business than is therein expressly permitted
under the terms of his or her license.
§ 729.12  SALE OF ARTICLES FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION.
   No solicitor shall sell, barter or exchange, or offer for sale, barter or
exchange any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of personal property,
generally used for human consumption, which are or have not been adequately
protected against, dust, dirt, flies, vermin or other promiscuous handling and
contamination, or which have not been packed, stored, transported or sold under
proper sanitary conditions or which are spoiled, over-ripe or unwholesome, or
unfit for human consumption by the general public.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.13  TRESPASSING.
   No solicitor, while engaged in the business of solicitor, shall knock at the
door or ring the bell of any private home, apartment, apartment building or
other dwelling unit in the city, upon which is displayed at the entrance a
notice which reads “No Solicitors Allowed”, or which otherwise clearly purports
to prohibit solicitors on the premises, unless such solicitor is or has been
invited upon the premises by the owner, lessee or occupant of such premises.
The terms of this section do not apply to regularly licensed solicitors who,
without compensation or remuneration, solicit in behalf of and for any locally
or publicly recognized religious, educational, civic or charitable
organization.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.14  WALKING ON LAWNS OR THROUGH HEDGES PROHIBITED.
   No solicitor, while engaged in the business of a solicitor, shall walk upon
or across the grass, lawn, garden or through the hedges of any public or
private property.
Penalty, see §
729.99
§ 729.15  CHAPTER PURPOSE; VIOLATIONS A NUISANCE.
   This chapter is hereby declared to be a public measure which has for its
purpose and objective the protection and enjoyment of owners and occupants of
private residential dwellings, and any violation of its terms is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
§ 729.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 745:  PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
Section
745.01   Registration with police; state license required
745.02   Employee’s identification card
745.03   Time limit for reporting to police
745.04   Compliance with city law
 
745.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Handgun registration, see §§
549.13 et seq.
   State law provisions, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4749
§ 745.01  REGISTRATION WITH POLICE; STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A private investigator, as defined by Ohio R.C. 4749.01, before commencing
the business of private investigation in the city, shall exhibit to the Chief
of Police of the city, or his or her representative, a license duly issued by
the state for that purpose, and shall register with the Chief of Police
indicating his or her place of business. If a licensee moves his or her office,
he or she shall in writing notify the Chief of Police within 48 hours of the
change of address.
(Ord. 6294, passed 9-21-1971)
§ 745.02  EMPLOYEE’S IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   Each employee of a private investigator, before engaging in business in the
city, shall exhibit to the Chief of Police of the city, or his or her
representative, an identification card issued by the state in connection with
the registration of such employee by the state.
(Ord. 6294, passed 9-21-1971)
§ 745.03  TIME LIMIT FOR REPORTING TO POLICE.
   A private investigator or his or her employees shall not engage in the
business of private investigation unless, within 12 hours of their arrival,
they report their presence and length of stay to the Chief of Police of the
city.
(Ord. 6294, passed 9-21-1971)
§ 745.04  COMPLIANCE WITH CITY LAW.
   A private investigator and his or her employees shall at all times comply
with all ordinances and regulations of the city.
(Ord. 6294, passed 9-21-1971)
§ 745.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned six months, or both.
CHAPTER 749:  SALE OF IRRADIATED FOODS
Section
749.01   Definitions
749.02   Sale of irradiated food prohibited; exception
749.03   Applicability
 
749.99   Penalty
§ 749.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Includes fruits, vegetables, meats, poultry, eggs, dairy products and
other natural and processed products offered for sale for human or animal
consumption.
   IRRADIATED FOOD.  Any food treated with ionizing radiation from radioactive
sources, x-rays or electron beams and includes any food which contains an
ingredient that has been irradiated; provided however, that if the irradiated
ingredients of any food consist solely of spices which have been so treated,
such food shall not be deemed an irradiated food on account of such irradiated
spices.
(Ord. 6-91, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 749.02  SALE OF IRRADIATED FOOD PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any merchant, broker or processor to knowingly
sell, offer for sale or expose for sale an irradiated food except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, whether or not such food is deemed to be adulterated
under provisions of the codified ordinances of the city. It shall not be
unlawful under this section for any merchant, broker or processor to knowingly
sell, offer for sale or expose for sale an irradiated food to a hospital,
medical clinic, physician or physicians office for use as part of a medical
regimen in the care or treatment of persons with immune system deficiency or
other disease, provided the irradiated food is packaged with or accompanied by
a warning label that it is intended for medical use only by such person upon
physicians advice.
(Ord. 6-91, passed 2-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
749.99
§ 749.03  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to irradiated foods purchased
prior to the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 6-91, passed 2-19-1991)
§ 749.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If the offender has been previously convicted of a violation of
this chapter, such second or subsequent offense shall constitute a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(Ord. 6-91, passed 2-19-1991)
CHAPTER 753:  BATH AND MASSAGE BUSINESSES
Section
753.01   Purpose
753.02   Definitions
753.03   Permits required
753.04   Application for massage business permit
753.05   Application for masseur’s permit
753.06   Issuance or denial of bath and massage business permit
753.07   Display of permits and operation
753.08   Fee
753.09   Revocation or suspension of permit
753.10   Appeal procedure
753.11   Remedy for violations
753.12   Emergency action
753.13   Keeping of records
753.14   Transfers prohibited
753.15   Sanitation and safety requirements
753.16   Supervision
753.17   Persons under age 18 prohibited on the premises
753.18   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
753.19   Exceptions
753.20   Conflict of law
 
753.99   Penalty
§ 753.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the licensing and
regulating of bath and massage businesses.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATH AND MASSAGE BUSINESS.  The activity of providing, for any form of
consideration or gratuity, facilities for massage; steam bath; electric light
bath; electric tub bath; shower bath; tub bath; sponge bath; sun bath; mineral
bath; Russian, Swedish or Turkish bath; giving salt glows; administration of
fomentation, massage, electric or magnetic treatment, or alcohol rub; public
bathing which has in connection therewith a steam room, dry hot room, plunge,
shower bath or public sleeping accommodations; or any other type of bath or
system for treating or manipulating the human body.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a masseur, who renders
any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives
compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for
medical, hygienic, exercise or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating with the hands or any
instrument, or by the application of air, liquid or vapor baths of any kind
whatever.
   MASSEUR. Any person who engages in the practice of massage as herein
defined. The use of the masculine gender shall include in all cases the
feminine gender as well.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL.  Any school or institution of learning which has for its
purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of massage,
which school requires a resident course of study of not less than 70 hours
before the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of
graduation from such school following the successful completion of such course
of study or learning.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.03  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Business permit required. No person shall engage in or carry on the
business of bath and massage unless he or she has a valid massage business
permit issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each
and every separate office or place of business conducted by such person.
   (b)   Masseur’s permit required. No person shall practice massage as a
masseur, employee or otherwise, unless he or she has a valid and subsisting
masseur’s permit issued to him or her by the city pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)  Penalty, see §
753.99
§ 753.04  APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (a)   Any person desiring a bath and massage business permit shall file a
written application with the Mayor on a form to be furnished by him or her.
   (b)   The applicant shall accompany the application with a tender of the
correct permit fee as hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, furnish the
following:
      (1)   The type of ownership of the business, (i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise);
      (2)   The name, style and designation under which the business or
practice is to be conducted;
      (3)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business
is to be conducted;
      (4)   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all
masseurs and employees in the business and the name and residence addresses of
the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the
business;
      (5)   The following personal information concerning the applicant, if an
individual or if a partnership for each partnership; and concerning each
stockholder holding more than 5% of the stock of the corporation, each officer
and each director, if the applicant is a corporation; and concerning the
partners, including limited partners if the applicant is a partnership; and
concerning the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation
of the business:
         A.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone numbers;
         B.   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present
address of the applicant;
         C.   Written proof of age;
         D.   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes and sex;
         E.   Two front face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of the application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
         F.   The massage or similar business history and experience,
including, but not limited to, whether or not such person in previously
operating in this or another city or state under license or permit has had such
license or permit denied, revoked or suspended and the reason therefor, and the
business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial,
suspension or revocation;
         G.   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic
violations, fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted, and the
offense for which convicted and the circumstances thereof;
         H.   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file
by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representatives; and
         I.   Diploma, certificate or other written proof of graduation from a
recognized school by the person who shall be directly responsible for the
operation and management of the massage business.
      (6)   Such other information, identification and physical examination of
the person as shall be deemed necessary by the Mayor to discover the truth of
the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
      (7)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit;
      (8)   The names and addresses of the three adult residents of the county
who will serve as character references. The references must be persons other
than relatives and business associates;
      (9)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury that
the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct,
said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city; and
      (10)   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon or in which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or
rental agreement.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.05  APPLICATION FOR MASSEUR’S PERMIT.
   (a)   Any person desiring a masseur’s permit shall file a written
application with the Mayor on a form to be furnished by the Mayor.
   (b)   The applicant shall tender with the application the correct permit fee
as hereinafter established and shall, in addition, furnish the following:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is
to be practiced;
      (2)   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
         A.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone numbers;
         B.   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present
address of the applicant;
         C.   Written proof of age;
         D.   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes and sex;
         E.   Two front face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
         F.   The massage or similar business history and experience,
including, but not limited to, whether or not such person in previously
operating in this or another city or state under license or permit has had such
license or permit denied, revoked or suspended and the reason therefor, and the
business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial,
suspension or revocation;
         G.   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic
violations, fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted and the
offense for which convicted and the circumstances thereof;
         H.   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file
by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representative;
         I.   Diploma, certificate or other written proof of graduation from a
recognized school where the theory, method, profession or work of massage is
taught; and
         J.   A statement in writing from a licensed physician in the state
that he or she has examined the applicant and believes the applicant to be free
of all communicable diseases.
      (3)   Such other information, identification and physical examination of
the person deemed necessary by the Mayor in order to discover the truth of the
matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
      (4)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (5)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.06  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF BATH AND MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT.
   The Mayor shall issue a bath and massage business permit within 45 days of
receipt of the application unless he or she finds that:
   (a)   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city, and in the
case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation;
   (b)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city’s
building, zoning and health regulations;
   (c)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation; any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other
persons principally in charge of the operation of the business, have been
convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, unless such
conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of the application;
   (d)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith;
   (e)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked or suspended for any of the above causes by
the city or any other state or local agency within five years prior to the date
of the application;
   (f)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years; or
   (g)   The manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business has not successfully completed a resident course of study or
learning of not less than 70 hours from a recognized school where the theory,
method, profession or work of massage is taught.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.07  DISPLAY OF PERMITS AND OPERATION.
   (a)   The bath and massage business permittee shall display his or her
permit, and that of each and every masseur employed in the establishment, in an
open and conspicuous place on the premises of the bath and massage business.
   (b)   No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on, or permit to be
engaged in, conducted or carried on, any bath and massage business unless each
and all of the following requirements are met.
      (1)   Each person employed or acting as a masseur shall have a valid
permit issued by the city, and it shall be unlawful for any owner, operator,
responsible managing employee, manager or permittee in charge of or in control
of a bath and massage business to employ or permit a person to act as a
masseur, as defined in this chapter, who is not in possession of a valid,
unrevoked masseur permit.
      (2)   The possession of a valid bath and massage business permit does not
authorize the possessor to perform work for which a masseur permit is required.
      (3)   Bath and massage operations shall be carried on, and the premises
shall be open, only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
      (4)   A list of services available and the cost of such services shall be
posted in an open and conspicuous place on the premises. The services shall be
fully described in readily understandable language.
      (5)   No owner, operator, responsible managing employee manager or
permittee shall permit, and no masseur shall offer or perform any services
other than those posted.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.08  FEE.
   The permit fee for a bath and massage business shall be $50 per year or any
part thereof. The permit fee for masseurs shall be $10 per year or any part
thereof.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.09  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any bath and massage business or masseur’s permit issued under this chapter,
shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the Mayor for violation of any
provision of this chapter or for any grounds that would warrant the denial of
issuance of such permit in the first place. The Mayor, upon such revocation or
suspension, shall state his or her reasons in writing, specifying the
particular grounds for such revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.10  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of any city official made
in the enforcement of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals from such decision within ten days from the date notice of
such decision was given or mailed to him or her and to appear before the Board
of Zoning Appeals at a time and place fixed by such Board. Such appeal must be
in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with the Board within the time
prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. The Board of
Zoning Appeals shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of such city official.
   (b)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision
within ten days from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to
the appellant and to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by
Council. Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with
Council within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of
appeal. Council shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals. Should Council, after the hearing
provided herein, determine that the continued operation of the bath and massage
business will be dangerous or injurious to the health and well-being of the
customers or employers using such facilities and order the revocation of the
license to operate such facility, then no stay of execution of this
determination shall be had by appeal to any court of law or equity and such
bath and massage business shall be closed immediately.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.11  REMEDY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the Director of Law or his
or her assistants from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a
court of proper jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or prevent the use of a building, temporarily or permanently, for
bath and massage purposes or to require compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or orders
or determinations of any city official, the Board of Building Code Appeals or
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.12  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Notwithstanding the existence of any other remedies, penalties or legal
action provided for herein, if the Mayor determines that an emergency condition
exists in the community or at the massage and bath business location, which is
immediately hazardous to the health or well-being of the customers or employees
using such facility, the Mayor shall order the facility immediately closed and
shall post thereon, in a conspicuous place, a sign closing such facility until
further direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 7101, passed 12-20-1977)
§ 753.13  KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   Every person who operates a bath and massage business or practices or
provides a massage shall at all times keep an appointment book in which the
name of each and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date
and place of service, and the service provided. Such appointment book shall be
available at all times for inspection by the Police Chief or his or her
authorized representatives.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.14  TRANSFERS PROHIBITED.
   No massage and bath business and masseur permits are transferable, separate
or divisible and such authority as a permit confers shall be conferred only on
the permittee named therein.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.15  SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All premises used by permittees hereunder shall be periodically inspected by
the Director of Public Services or his or her authorized representatives for
safety of the structure and adequacy of plumbing, ventilation, heating and
illumination. The walls shall be clean and painted with washable, mold-
resistant paint in all rooms where water or steam baths are given. Floors shall
be free from any accumulation of dust, dirt or refuse. All equipment used in
the massage operation shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
Towels, linen and items for personal use of operators and patients shall be
clean and freshly laundered. Towels, cloths and sheets shall not be used for
more than one patron. Heavy, white paper may be substituted for sheets provided
that such paper is changed for every patron. No massage service or practice
shall be carried on within any cubicle, room, booth or any area within a
massage establishment which is fitted with a door capable of being locked.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to eliminate other requirements of
statute or ordinance concerning the maintenance of premises, nor to preclude
authorized inspection thereof.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.16  SUPERVISION.
   A permittee shall have the premises supervised at all times when open for
business. Any business rendering massage services shall have one person who
qualifies as a masseur on the premises at all times while the establishment is
open. The permittee shall personally supervise the business, and shall not
violate, or permit others to violate, any applicable provision of this chapter.
The violation of any such provision by any agent or employee of the permittee
shall constitute a violation by the permittee.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.17  PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON THE PREMISES.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as a masseur,
employee or patron, unless such person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.18  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage business.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)  Penalty, see §
753.99
§ 753.19  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes,
sanitariums or persons holding any unrevoked certificate to practice the
healing arts under the laws of the state, or persons working under the
direction of any such persons, or in any such establishment, nor shall this
chapter apply to barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their
particular profession or business and holding a valid, unrevoked license or
certificate of registration issued by the state.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.20  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   In the event of conflict between any provisions of this Bath and Massage
Business Code, including any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to its
provisions and any provisions of other city ordinances, including any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to such ordinances, the more restrictive provision
or provisions shall prevail.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
§ 753.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
(Ord. 6921, passed 11-3-1976)
PART 9:  STREETS AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
         Title
            
1.   STREET AND SIDEWALK AREAS
            
3.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
            
5.   OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
TITLE 1:  STREET AND SIDEWALK AREAS
      Chapter
         
901   Street Excavations
         
903   Sidewalk and Driveway Construction, Repair and Removal
         
905   Curb Cutting
         
907   Utility Company Fixtures
CHAPTER 901:  STREET EXCAVATIONS
Section
901.01   Permit required
901.02   Written statement of work; permit fee
901.03   Deposit; pavement restoration
901.04   Disposition of fees and deposits
 
901.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Barricades and warning lights, see §
543.02
   Digging, excavating, piling earth on streets, see Ohio R.C. 5589.10
   Excavations by the city, see Ohio R.C. 723.02
   Hauling excavated materials, see
Ch. 1329
§ 901.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall proceed with an excavation, repair, construction or
reconstruction of any kind in any street or other public property without first
obtaining a permit therefor.
(Ord. 5464, passed 5-9-1963)
§ 901.02  WRITTEN STATEMENT OF WORK; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   Before issuing any permit to any person for placing building material
or other substance in any part of any street or sidewalk, or for making any
excavation in any such street or sidewalk, the applicant for such permit shall
state definitely in writing the nature of the material or substance to be
placed or excavation to be made in such street or on such sidewalk, where the
same is to be located and the length and width of the obstructed portion of the
street or sidewalk or excavation therein.
   (b)   The applicant shall also pay $2 to the Mayor for such permit.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-18-1927)
§ 901.03  DEPOSIT; PAVEMENT RESTORATION.
   Where the proposed excavation contemplates the taking up of any pavement or
sidewalk on any street, the applicant shall, in addition to the payment of the
$2 permit fee, deposit with the Mayor a sum of money sufficient in amount, in
the judgment of the Mayor, to cover the cost and expense of relaying the
pavement or sidewalk and restoring it to as good a condition as it was before
the making of such excavation. This amount shall be refunded only when such
pavement and sidewalks shall have been relaid and the street restored to a good
condition satisfactory to the Mayor. However, if such pavement and sidewalk are
not relaid and restored to a good condition to the satisfaction of the Mayor
within a time to be stated in the permit, then the Mayor may cause such work to
be done and deduct the cost thereof from the amount of the deposit required and
the excess, if any, shall be paid to the party making such deposit.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-18-1927)
§ 901.04  DISPOSITION OF FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   All moneys collected as fees for the issuing of permits under this chapter
shall be turned over to the Finance Director to be credited to the General
Fund, and all deposits collected hereunder shall be likewise turned over to the
Finance Director to be held by him or her in a fund until the fulfillment of
the obligations imposed by this chapter in pursuance of which such deposit
shall have been made, and shall then be paid out in accordance with the
foregoing requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2204, passed 1-18-1927)
§ 901.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
CHAPTER 903:  SIDEWALK AND DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND REMOVAL
Section
903.01   Construction specifications
903.02   Noncompliance with requirements
903.03   Sidewalk or driveway not to constitute hazard or nuisance
903.04   Permit required
 
903.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assessments for cleaning sidewalks, see CHTR. §
71
   Barricades and warning lights, see §
543.02
   Sidewalk cleanliness, see §
543.01
   Sidewalk safety and protection, see §
543.03
§ 903.01  CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (a)   All sidewalks and driveways hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
replaced, altered or repaired in dedicated streets within the corporate limits
of the city shall conform to the following requirements.
   (b)   For the purpose of this chapter all paved areas between the curb line
and the property line in dedicated streets shall be considered as sidewalk or
driveway.
      (1)   Width. Sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide on streets 40
feet or less in width and at least five feet wide on streets over 40 feet in
width.
      (2)   Alignment. The property edge of sidewalks shall be laid on the
property line abutting and fronting upon the street.
      (3)   Grades. The grade of sidewalks and driveways shall have a slope
towards the curb of three-eighths of an inch per foot from the property line to
the established grade of the top of the curb, except that driveway aprons may
have a steeper slope in the tree lawn or curb lawn area in order to meet the
lowered curb at the driveway apron. All paved or unpaved tree lawns or curb
lawns shall slope uniformly from the grade at the edge of the sidewalk nearest
to the curb to the grade at the top of the curb.
      (4)   Materials; thickness; specifications. All sidewalks and driveways
shall be constructed in accordance with the specifications on file in the
office of the Mayor. All sidewalks shall be at least two and one-half inches
thick if constructed of stone and at least four inches thick if constructed of
concrete. All driveways, including that portion of driveways across sidewalks,
shall be at least four inches thick if constructed of stone and six inches
thick if constructed of concrete. Materials other than stone or concrete
proposed to be used for sidewalks or driveways and the thickness of such
sidewalks or driveways shall be approved and established by the Mayor or his or
her duly authorized representative.
      (5)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements, the Mayor
or his or her duly authorized representative shall have authority to modify the
provisions of divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) above whenever in his or her judgment
the existing grades, structures, plantings or other conditions render it
impracticable, uneconomical or unsafe to enforce strict adherence to such
requirements.
(Ord. 5273, passed 7-26-1960)
§ 903.02  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of any property abutting a street shall fail to
keep the sidewalk adjacent to such property in good repair.
   (b)   Whenever the condition of any sidewalk, driveway, tree lawn or curb
lawn in a dedicated street in the city does not conform to the requirements of
§
903.01 or there exists any obstructions or nuisances therein, the city may
proceed to correct such conditions and may charge and assess the cost thereof
against the owners of the abutting property. If such cost is to be charged and
assessed against the owners of the abutting property, the proceedings shall
conform to the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code governing the construction
and care of sidewalks.
(Ord. 5273, passed 7-26-1960; Ord. 5464, passed 5-9-1963)
§ 903.03  SIDEWALK OR DRIVEWAY NOT TO CONSTITUTE HAZARD OR NUISANCE.
   Wherever a paved sidewalk or driveway is constructed or maintained on
private property but contiguous to the sidewalk in a dedicated street, and is
designed to be used or is used by the general public, such paved sidewalk or
driveway shall be constructed and maintained at such elevation, grade and
surface condition as will not, in the opinion of the Mayor, constitute a hazard
or nuisance.
(Ord. 5273, passed 7-26-1960)
§ 903.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct, reconstruct, alter, repair, remove or replace any
sidewalk or driveway in dedicated streets in the city without having first
obtained a permit from the Mayor. Such construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, removal or replacement shall conform in all respects with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5273, passed 7-26-1960)
§ 903.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 905:  CURB CUTTING
Section
905.01   Permit required
905.02   Fees and additional charges
905.03   Permission denial or modification by City Engineer
905.04   City to supervise work; specifications
 
905.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driveways not to constitute a nuisance, see §
903.03
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 901
§ 905.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No curbing shall be cut within the city without obtaining a permit and
except in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
905.99
§ 905.02  FEES AND ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   Persons desiring to cut curbing shall make application to the City Engineer
and shall deposit a fee of $1 plus an additional charge of $1 per lineal foot
or fraction thereof of concrete or gray sandstone curbing to be cut, or $2 per
lineal foot or fraction thereof of medina sandstone or granite curbing to be
cut.
(Ord. 4932, passed 4-3-1956)
§ 905.03  PERMISSION DENIAL OR MODIFICATION BY CITY ENGINEER.
   If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, there is no necessity for cutting
the curb, the amount of cutting requested is too great, or the cutting of curb
will create a dangerous condition or will too greatly destroy the city’s
property, or if for any other reason he or she shall decide that it is not to
the best interests of the city to grant such permission, then the City Engineer
shall have the right to refuse such permission or request that the application
be modified, as he or she deems necessary.
(Ord. 4369, passed 9-20-1949)
§ 905.04  CITY TO SUPERVISE WORK; SPECIFICATIONS.
   If the City Engineer approves the application, the curb shall be cut by the
permittee under city supervision and according to city specifications on file
in the City Engineer’s office.
§ 905.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
CHAPTER 907:  UTILITY COMPANY FIXTURES
Section
907.01   Definitions
907.02   City’s right to require fixtures changed; cost
907.03   Change of prior company’s fixtures; cost
907.04   Plans and permits required; emergency work
907.05   Plan contents; yearly proposed work plans
907.06   City to supervise work; company’s responsibilities; deposit
907.07   Standards for company work; costs of emergency work
907.08   Liability of company
907.09   Required abatement of nuisance or dangerous conditions
907.10   Bonds and sureties
Cross-reference:
   Franchises, see CHTR. §§
76 et seq.
   Required service connections, see CHTR. §
70
   Sidewalk permit, see §
903.04
   Street excavation permit, see §§
901.01 et seq.
§ 907.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of East Cleveland, a municipal corporation, acting in
legislative capacity by Council and in an administrative capacity by the Mayor
and duly appointed officers within the scope of their authority.
   COMPANY. Any public utility or public service corporation, any municipal
corporation other than the city, any other corporation, company, firm, person
or persons by whatever name known and including their heirs, successors or
assigns, doing construction or maintenance work on structures in, under or over
streets or public grounds.
   COST. The entire cost of work and materials and includes all incidental
expenses, such as repaving, city inspection and supervision, pertaining to the
construction or maintenance of any structure as herein defined.
   STRUCTURE. Any pipe, conduit and duct line, sewer, water-main, service
connection, pole, wire, track and other structure or appurtenance, located in,
under or over streets or public grounds.
   WORK. Any and all labor and materials, delivery of materials, supervision,
fabrication or process of construction pertaining to the construction or
maintenance of any structure as herein defined.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.02  CITY’S RIGHT TO REQUIRE FIXTURES CHANGED; COST.
   The city shall, in the construction, reconstruction, relocation and
maintenance of city structures or improvements of all kinds, have prior rights
in, under or over the streets or public grounds and may require the removal,
relocation, reconstruction or support of the structures of any company. The
entire cost of such removal, relocation, reconstruction or support shall be
borne by such company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.03  CHANGE OF PRIOR COMPANY’S FIXTURES; COST.
   The city may, if deemed necessary and in the public interest, require the
removal, relocation, reconstruction or support of the structures of any company
for the purpose of permitting the construction, reconstruction or maintenance
of the structures of a second company. The cost thereof shall be borne by such
second company, provided, however, that if it is determined that the structures
of the prior company were constructed without authorization or permit from the
city, or are not located substantially in accordance with the plans filed
therefor, or occupy an unnecessary or unreasonable proportion of the space
available, or for other just and reasonable cause, the city may require that
the cost of such removal, relocation, reconstruction or support shall be borne
all or in part by such prior company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.04  PLANS AND PERMITS REQUIRED; EMERGENCY WORK.
   No construction, reconstruction or maintenance work shall be done in, under
or over streets or public grounds by any company until satisfactory plans
therefor have been filed with and approved by the city and written permits for
such work issued. Any material alterations or additions to the work must be
approved by the city and written permits secured therefor. Where street
pavement or sidewalk is to be opened for any work, a street excavation permit
shall be included in those to be secured and where a sidewalk or drive is to be
replaced in connection with the work, a sidewalk permit shall be secured. The
company shall make all necessary arrangements with the city’s Water Division
for the use of water from hydrants and shall conform strictly with all
departmental regulations governing such use. The company shall notify the city
24 hours before starting work. After completion of work, the company shall, if
necessary, revise or file amended plans so that the final record on file with
the city shall show the correct location, size and extent of all structures
constructed, relocated, removed or which otherwise are not in accord with the
records prior to such work. The foregoing provisions in this section shall not
apply to emergency work made necessary by accidents or other unforeseen
conditions requiring immediate action to prevent injury to persons or damage to
property, but the company shall promptly report the nature and extent of any
such work to the city and shall secure the written approval of work so done.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.05  PLAN CONTENTS; YEARLY PROPOSED WORK PLANS.
   (a)   The plans for the work or structures of any company, in, under or over
the streets or public grounds shall show by scale of sufficient size to
determine locations within one foot, or by dimensions, the accurate location,
size and depth of structures proposed to be built in relation to street lines
and grade, monuments or semi-permanent structures such as curbs, sidewalks or
buildings. The city may require that accurate surveys be made before or during
construction. Pipe, conduit and duct lines and water mains shall in general,
follow lines parallel with street and grade lines. Sewers shall, in general,
follow lines parallel with street line and be on grade satisfactory to the
city. All such construction shall be at a depth satisfactory to the city and
shall not be so laid as to obstruct or reduce the size of any culvert, storm
sewer or similar structure. Service connections shall, in general, be laid on
lines which are radial or at right angles to street lines. Special structures
shall be detailed to the satisfaction of the city.
   (b)   The administrative officers of the city shall at least once each year
prepare a tentative program of proposed construction for the ensuing 12 months.
Copies of this program shall be furnished to all companies whose structures may
be affected by the work contemplated. Any company proposing to do work on
structures in, under or over the streets or public grounds of the city shall
file with the city at least once each year a tentative program of proposed
construction for the ensuing 12 months.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.06  CITY TO SUPERVISE WORK; COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITIES; DEPOSIT.
   (a)   All work done and structures built in, under or over streets and
public grounds shall be under the inspection and supervision of the city to the
extent that it may deem necessary to protect the public interest. Before
starting any work, the company shall deposit with the city a satisfactory cash
deposit to cover the estimated cost of inspection, supervision, repaving and
any other costs that may be incurred by the city in connection with the
proposed work. The city may from time to time require that additional cash
deposits be made if it is found by the city that the costs incurred may be in
excess of the amount on deposit.
   (b)   If deposits are not made promptly upon demand of the city, all work
may be stopped by order of the city until such demands are satisfied, and any
cost occasioned by such delay shall be borne by the company. Any balance
remaining after the completion of the work shall be refunded to the company.
   (c)   The city shall, within a reasonable time before starting any work or
improvements, notify all companies whose structures may be affected. It shall
be the responsibility and duty of each company to furnish the city with
adequate plans of all such structures and to have a competent representative on
the grounds, as the city deems necessary, to indicate the proximity of such
structures and to provide for such removal, relocation, reconstruction or
support of such structures by the company in ample time to prevent unnecessary
delay to city work. The city shall exercise reasonable care in working in the
vicinity of such structures, but otherwise the responsibility for preventing
damage thereto and for doing all necessary work of removal, relocation,
reconstruction or support shall lie with the company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.07  STANDARDS FOR COMPANY WORK; COST OF EMERGENCY WORK.
   (a)   The work of any company shall be first class in every respect. The
city shall have the right to insist that all work be performed by competent
foreman and workmen and may require that any company employee doing
unsatisfactory work be removed. All structures shall be constructed in a
workmanlike manner, true to line, grade and dimensions, and of ample strength
to withstand all anticipated loads and stresses. The city may require that
unsatisfactory structures be rebuilt. Materials shall be entirely suitable for
the structures contemplated, they shall be so delivered and stored as to give
the least inconvenience to the public and shall be used within a reasonable
time after delivery.
   (b)   Excavation for structures shall be so conducted as to keep
interference with other uses of streets and public grounds at a minimum and
shall be subject to city control as to location and extent. Suitable bridges
over trenches at street intersections and at other locations where they are
deemed necessary shall be furnished by the company, if required by the city.
Excavation, in general, shall be open trench and tunneling shall be permitted
only in specific locations approved in writing the by city. Structures of the
city or other companies encountered during work shall be called to the
attention of the city promptly and all necessary precautions taken to protect
them. No such structures shall be disturbed until the authorization of the
owner is secured. The city may require such bracing, sheeting, footings and
other measures as are deemed necessary to protect structures.
   (c)   Backfilling of trenches shall follow the completion of work as closely
as possible. Sand or such other easily compacted material shall be used for
backfilling as deemed necessary by the city, together with such puddling,
tamping or other methods of compaction deemed necessary to produce a
satisfactory subgrade.
   (d)   Trenches and other excavations shall be maintained by the company
until the city makes permanent repairs to pavements or structures, it being
understood that the city shall make repairs within a reasonable time. If
maintenance work is not done promptly or in a manner satisfactory to the city,
the city may do such work as it deems necessary and all costs shall be borne by
the company.
   (e)   Pavements, curbing, walks, drives and other city structures removed or
disturbed during work will be replaced by the city at the expense of the
company unless otherwise provided at the time the permit is granted. If the
company is permitted to do any part of such replacement work, it must be done
under city inspection and in accordance with the standard practice of the city
for such work and structures. Pavement base shall be of at least two inches
greater thickness than the base removed and the company shall install steel
reinforcement if it is deemed necessary by the city. Pavement surface shall be
of the same type as the surface removed except by written permission of the
city, in general, replaced structures shall be of the greater thickness,
strength and durability than the original structures to compensate for possible
subsurface settlements or failures, for difficulty in bonding old and new work
and for structural weakening due to loss of homogeneity.
   (f)   In an emergency the city may enter upon any work and execute such
measures as may be necessary to prevent loss of life, injury to persons or
serious damage to property. Any cost rising out of the doing of such emergency
work will be a charge upon the company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.08  LIABILITY OF COMPANY.
   The company shall construct and maintain its structures in accordance with
the best standard practice and shall, in accepting a permit to do any work in,
under or over the streets or public grounds, agree to defend, indemnify and
save harmless the city and its officers and agents from all claims, demands,
payments, suits, actions, recoveries and judgments, of every description,
whether or not well founded in law, brought or recovered against it, by reason
of any act or omission of such company, its agents or employees, in the
execution of the work or in consequence of any negligence or carelessness in
guarding the same, or by reason of insufficient protection by the company, and
a sum sufficient to cover any such claims may be retained by the city from any
moneys due or to become due to the company until such claims have been
discharged to the satisfaction of the city. Settlement of pavement, walks, curb
lawns or structures over or adjacent to completed work will, unless
satisfactory contrary evidence is presented, be regarded as due to such work
and the company responsible shall pay the cost of any repairs or replacements
that may be necessary. The city may order such maintenance as is deemed
necessary and proper in the interest of public safety and in accordance with
the terms under which structures have been erected, and upon the failure of
such company to comply with such order may cause such work to be done at the
expense of such company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.09  REQUIRED ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE OR DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   The city may require that the company promptly abate any dangerous condition
or practice and remove, alter or otherwise make safe to the satisfaction of the
city any structure which may cause injury to persons or damage to property. The
city may require the relocation or rebuilding of structures in the interest of
public convenience, the facilitation of traffic or similar needs. The company
shall remove or relocate any existing pipe, duct or other structure which is so
laid as to obstruct or reduce the size of any culvert, storm sewer or similar
structure and such a condition is hereby declared to be dangerous. The cost of
any such work shall be borne by the company.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
§ 907.10  BONDS AND SURETIES.
   The city may require such bonds or sureties as it may deem necessary to
protect the public interest and to save the city harmless from any liability
for damage to persons or property which may arise from or grow out of the work
or structures of the company. The amount of such bond or sureties shall be
determined by the city.
(Ord. 2653, passed 9-22-1931)
TITLE 3:  PUBLIC UTILITIES
      Chapter
         
921   Sanitary Sewer Charges
         
923   Water
         
927   Outdoor Pay Telephones
         
929   Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control
CHAPTER 921: SANITARY SEWER CHARGES
Section
921.01   Declaration of necessity
921.02   Definition
921.03   Charges levied
921.04   Charges a lien; certification to County Auditor
921.05   Sewerage Service Fund
921.06   Sewer connection fees
921.07   Capital Improvement Fund
921.08   Fees for sewer clean outs
Cross-reference:
   Weekly deposit of charges collected, see Ohio R.C. 729.52
§ 921.01  DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for the preservation of
the health, welfare, safety and convenience of the city and its inhabitants to
levy and collect a charge or rental upon all lots and premises serviced by
sanitary sewer connections to the city’s sanitary sewerage system to pay a part
of the cost and expense of administering, maintaining and operating the
sanitary sewerage system and the expense incurred for sewer outlet and sewage
treatment facilities furnished by the City of Cleveland.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY SEWAGE.  The waste of water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, garage floor
drains, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains
and stable floor drains and any other liquid waste resulting from any private,
commercial, industrial or manufacturing operation or process.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.03  CHARGES LEVIED.
   In order to provide the necessary funds for the service and maintenance of
the sewer mains within the city, there is hereby levied against each water
consumer in the city a local charge equal to the sum specified in subsequent
sections that will be billed and collected by the Cleveland Division of Water
on behalf of the city as follows.
   (a)   If the lot or premises is situated in the city, the local charge shall
be $10 per one mcf of water consumed as shown by records of the Cleveland
Division of Water.
   (b)   In the case of a building or premises which discharges into the
sanitary sewerage system of the city sanitary sewage which does not result from
the use of water measured as hereinbefore provided, the Mayor shall measure or
determine the amount of such sanitary sewage in such a manner and by such
method as he or she may find practical under the circumstances, and in such
case the sewer service charge shall be based upon the volume of sanitary sewage
in such manner as to be an equitable charge upon the particular lot or
premises.
   (c)   (1)   Homestead exemption rate. Upon receipt of a verified application
and/or notification of receipt of a verified application by the Cleveland
Division of Water, the homestead rate for the local sewer charge shall be a
reduced rate of $7.50 per one mcf as shown by the Cleveland Division of Water
based on actual meter readings. The homestead rate shall be charged for those
low/moderate income and elderly and disabled homeowners who are determined to
be eligible for such rate by the Cleveland Division of Water and the county.
Eligible homeowners shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations,
including the completion of an application form, when necessary.
      (2)   Charge included on bill. All sewer charges shall be computed
quarterly, unless specified otherwise, and shall be included as a charge on
each quarter bill for water consumption billed by the Cleveland Division of
Water and shall be collected as part of such quarterly bills.
   (d)   The rates of such charges or rentals hereinabove established are
deemed and are hereby found and determined to be just and equitable.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.04  CHARGES A LIEN; CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY AUDITOR.
   Charges or rentals hereby levied upon the lots and premises shall become due
and payable in quarterly periods as aforesaid and are hereby declared to be a
lien upon such lot or premises serviced by sanitary sewer connections. If not
paid within 45 days after the time the same shall have become due and payable,
such charges or rentals shall become delinquent and, on September 1 of each
year, if still delinquent, may be certified to the County Auditor, who shall
place the amount of such delinquent charges upon the tax duplicate of the
county with interest and penalties allowed by law to be collected as other
taxes are collected.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.05  SEWERAGE SERVICE FUND.
   (a)   Moneys received from the collection of the sewerage service charges
authorized by this chapter shall be deposited daily with the Director of
Finance, who shall keep a separate and distinct fund and account to be known as
the Sewerage Service Fund.
   (b)   When appropriated by Council, such Fund shall be available for the
payment of the cost and expense of:
      (1)   Administration, operation and maintenance of the city sewerage
system; and
      (2)   The construction or reconstruction of existing portions of the city
sewerage system or the construction of extensions to such system.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.06  SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (a)   Fees for a sewer permit shall be in accordance with the following
schedule.
 
                           Between Curb and Street Between a Point in the
                           Side Line Only          Pavement and Street Side
                                                   Line
For each 6-inch or smaller $6                      $8
sewer connection
For each 8-inch sewer      $8                      $10
connection
For each 10-inch sewer     $10                     $12
connection
For each 12-inch or larger $12                     $14
sewer connection
 
   (b)   In the event that it is necessary to construct, add to, alter or
repair more than one sewer connection, each connection shall be considered as
separate and shall require a separate permit and fee, except that, where
properties are served by a system of separate storm and sanitary connections,
one storm and one sanitary connection shall be together classed as a single
connection of the size of the larger connection.
   (c)   In the event that it is necessary to open the street pavement for
constructing, adding to, altering or repairing any sewer construction, a
deposit in addition to the fee hereinabove provided shall be required to cover
the cost of repaving such opening and the amount of such deposit shall be fixed
by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.07  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (a)   Moneys received from the collection of the municipal sewer charges
authorized by this chapter shall be deposited daily with the Director of
Finance, who shall keep a separate and distinct fund and account to be known as
the Capital Improvement Fund. One dollar of the amount assessed for 1,000 cubic
feet for municipal sewer charges shall be deposited into this Fund.
   (b)   When appropriated by Council, such Fund shall be available for the
payment of the cost and expense of:
      (1)   Administration, operation and maintenance of the city sewer system;
      (2)   The construction or reconstruction of existing portions of the city
sewer system or the construction of extensions to such system; and
      (3)   Payment of whatever charges which reflect the city’s contribution
in any governmental sponsored program designed to improve, modernize or
reconstruct the city’s infrastructure system.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 921.08  FEES FOR SEWER CLEAN OUTS.
   Upon the request of a property owner of the city, when a sewer needs to be
cleaned out, the property owner may contact the Service Department to have the
sewer cleaned out provided the property owner agrees to pay the following fees:
   (a)   Seventy-five dollars during normal business hours, which are 7:30 a.m.
to 4:30 p.m.;
   (b)   One hundred dollars non-business hours; or
   (c)   Owners on the homestead program rate will pay $25 during normal
business hours and $50 during non-business hours.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 923:  WATER
Editor’s note:
   City Charter § 24 authorizes the Mayor to be the acting head of the
Department of Public Service. Ohio R.C. 743.02 provides that the Director of
Public Service of a city may make such bylaws and regulations as he or she
deems necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management and
protection of the city water works. Such bylaws and regulations shall have the
same validity as ordinances when not repugnant thereto or to the Constitution
or laws of the State of Ohio. The Director of Public Service pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 743.03, shall manage, conduct and control the city water works, furnish
supplies of water and collect water rents. The Director may assess and collect
a water rent of sufficient amount and in such manner as he or she deems most
equitable from all tenements and premises supplied with water, as provided by
Ohio R.C. 743.04.
   Rules and regulations governing the city’s Water Division operations,
services and rates have been promulgated by the Mayor (as Director of Public
Service) and are available for inspection at the office of the Water Division.
Section
923.01   Water service notice; service termination; restoration charge
923.02   Property seller to supply statement of status of water bill
923.03   Escrow agent not to disburse funds without statement
923.04   Rights of buyer
923.05   Tampering and interference with Water Division equipment and with
facilities
923.06   Theft of water service
923.07   Tampering with other utility equipment or facilities
923.08   Mandatory approved water meter and remote reader requirement
923.09   Capital Improvement Fund
923.10   Backflow prevention devices
 
923.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Compulsory water connection, see CHTR. §
70; Ohio R.C. 729.06, 743.23
   Power to provide and regulate water system, see Ohio R.C. 715.08, 717.01,
743.01
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 901
   Tampering with fixtures or meters, see §
541.04
   Water pollution, see Ohio R.C. 743.24 et seq.
   Water sprinkling ban, see §
521.05
   Water works mortgage revenue bonds, see Ohio R.C. 715.09 et seq.
   Weekly deposit of water works money collected, see Ohio R.C. 743.06
§ 923.01  WATER SERVICE NOTICE; SERVICE TERMINATION; RESTORATION CHARGE.
   (a)   All water rents and sewer charges or rents are due and payable during
the period designated on the bill. Where water service is being supplied, the
Superintendent of the Water Division shall first notify the account debtor or
party or parties in whose name the water service is metered to any particular
premises of any unpaid water bill and that if the account remains unpaid,
notice of account delinquency and service termination in seven days will be
made to such party and the occupants of the premises receiving such service by
United States mail; and if within a period of seven days from the mailing of
the delinquency notice to the account debtor and occupants the delinquent
amount is not paid, the Superintendent of the Water Division shall then
discontinue the supply of water to the meter of the account debtor; where
service has been terminated, such service shall not be restored unless the
account is paid in full together with a $10 turn-on charge and the next monthly
sewer service charge or rental and the next monthly water rental as estimated
based upon past consumption at the same or similar premises.
   (b)   No water service shall be terminated on Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.02  PROPERTY SELLER TO SUPPLY STATEMENT OF STATUS OF WATER BILL.
   No person, agent, firm or corporation shall sell by deed, land contract or
otherwise any interest in any premises within the city which is supplied with
city water without furnishing the buyer, prior to such sale, a statement from
the Division of Water setting forth the current status of the account for water
rent and sewer service charges for the premises, and when an escrow has been
established, depositing in escrow prior to delivery of possession or transfer
of title, a statement from the buyer acknowledging the receipt of this document
and accepting responsibility for all future bills for water rent and sewer
service charges in accordance with these codified ordinances.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.03  ESCROW AGENT NOT TO DISBURSE FUNDS WITHOUT STATEMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation acting in the capacity of an escrow agent in
any real estate transaction involving the sale of any premises situated in the
city which is supplied with city water shall disburse any funds unless the
provisions of §
923.02 have been met.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.04  RIGHTS OF BUYER.
   Conviction under §§
923.02 and
923.03 shall not be a bar to the rights of the buyer to recover by civil suit
from either the previous owner (seller), real estate agent or escrow agent the
amounts for water supplied to the previous owner and paid by the buyer.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.05  TAMPERING AND INTERFERENCE WITH WATER DIVISION EQUIPMENT AND WITH
FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, without the Water Division, public water
works or utility’s consent, with intent to violate §
923.06, do either of the following:
      (1)   Tamper with a water meter, conduit or attachment of the Water
Division or utility; or
      (2)   Reconnect any water equipment or water meter, conduit or attachment
of the Water Division or utility that has been disconnected by same.
   (b)   In a prosecution under division (a)(1) above, proof that a meter,
conduit or attachment of the Water Division or utility has been tampered with,
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment and is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred,
has caused the tampering with intent to violate §
923.06.
   (c)   In a prosecution under division (a)(2) above, proof that a meter,
conduit or attachment disconnected by the Division of Water or utility, has
been reconnected without the consent of the Division of Water or utility, is
prima facie evidence that the person in possession or control of the meter,
conduit or attachment at the time of the reconnection has reconnected the
meter, conduit or attachment with intent to violate §
923.06.
   (d)   As used in this section, TAMPER  means to interfere with, damage or
by-pass the Water Division or utility meter, conduit or attachment with the
intent to impede the correct registration of a meter or the proper functions of
a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the amount of utility service that is
registered on such meter.
   (e)   As used in this section, UTILITY  means any water works company, when
engaged in the business of supplying water through pipes or tubing or in
similar manner to consumers within the city, and includes within its meaning,
the Water Division and the water works company of any other political
subdivision of the state supplying and furnishing water or water services to
and for the benefit of the city.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)  Penalty, see §
923.99
§ 923.06  THEFT OF WATER SERVICE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly consume any water of the Water Division or
of the city water works or utility that has not been correctly registered
because a meter, conduit or attachment of such city water works or Water
Division or utility, has been tampered with as defined in §
923.05.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use water service of the city’s water works
or Water Division or utility which has been discontinued and reconnected
without the city’s water works or Water Division or utility’s consent.
   (c)   As used in this section, UTILITY  means any water works company, when
engaged in the business of supplying water through pipes or tubing or in a
similar manner to consumers within the city and includes the Water Division and
the water works company of any other political subdivision of the state
supplying and furnishing water or water services to and for the benefit of the
city.
   (d)   The city’s water works, Water Division or utility shall notify its
customers on an annual basis of the consequences of tampering with or by-
passing a meter.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)  Penalty, see §
923.99
§ 923.07  TAMPERING WITH OTHER UTILITY EQUIPMENT OR FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously open, close, adjust or interfere with a
fire hydrant, valve, regulator, gauge, gate, disc, curb cock, stopcock, meter
or other regulator operating or measuring device, or appliance in or attached
to the wells, tanks, reservoirs, conduits, pipes, mains, service pipes, house
pipes, or other pipes or apparatus of any utility or facilities of the Water
Division or that of a water works company or furnisher of water, with intent to
cause the escape of water or to injure or destroy such property.
   (b)   No person shall tap, sever, open or make unauthorized connections with
a main or pipe used or intended for the transmission of water. This section
does not apply to the agent or employee for that purpose, of the owner or
operator of the appliances referred to in this section, and does not apply to
anything done by or under authority of any regularly constituted fire
department.
   (c)   As used in this section, UTILITY means any water works company, the
city’s Water Division and the water works company of any other political
subdivision of the state supplying and furnishing water or water services to
and for the benefit of the city, when engaged in the business of supplying
water through hydrants, pipes or tubing, with the use of meters and other such
related utility equipment or in a similar manner to consumers within the city.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)  Penalty, see §
923.99
§ 923.08  MANDATORY APPROVED WATER METER AND REMOTE READER REQUIREMENT.
   (a)   Meter requirement. Every existing residential and commercial building
in the city receiving or using city water from the city water works, Water
Division, distribution system or utility is hereby required to have and to be
equipped with a city-approved working functional water meter and remote reader.
   (b)   Type of meter. Every existing residential and commercial building, on
the effective date of this section, shall have an approved tele-tape remote
readout electronic meter and remote reader installed, at the expense of the
city, for existing structures during and only during the initial change out
period of the installation of new meters throughout the city.
   (c)   New construction. Every new and/or newly constructed residential and
commercial building which is, or shall be constructed after the effective date
of this section, shall have installed, and be equipped with a city-approved
water meter and remote reader at the expense of the owner of such structure.
   (d)   Approved water meter and remote reader installation, position and
care.
      (1)   Approved water meters and remote readers installed at existing
structures at city expense shall be set, removed and adjusted only by
employees, agents or contractors in behalf of the city.
      (2)   Approved water meters and remote readers installed at new or newly
constructed structures at the owner’s expense shall not be set, removed or
adjusted except upon prior approval of and under direction of the Water
Division, distribution system or utility.
      (3)   If an approved water meter or remote reader installed at a building
structure is stolen, damaged by freezing, fire, hot water or in any other
manner, or by neglect, the cost of repair or replacement shall be paid by the
owner of the building, and all payments and costs must be made in full before
another meter is reset.
      (4)   No meter is permitted in an inaccessible place, and all meters and
remote readers must be placed and maintained in a position so that they are
accessible for reading and service with unobstructed passageways leading to
them at all times.
      (5)   The location of approved water meters and remote readers and plans
for the arrangement of any meter pit, must be approved by and satisfactory to
the Water Division or water distribution system, water works company or
utility; and in addition, all plumbing must be approved by the city, and shall
be so arranged that an approved water meter and remote reader can be set in
place without disturbing any pre-existing or other water pipes, gas lines or
other such conduits at the building.
      (6)   At buildings without basement areas, the approved water meter may
be mounted in accessible areas of the kitchen, utility room or other protected
areas where possible; otherwise the approved water meter may be located in a
subterranean pit constructed by the owner, but the design of such subterranean
pit shall be approved by the Division of Water, distribution system or utility.
      (7)   Approved water meters which are installed and are larger in size
than two inches, shall be equipped with a check valve and a back flow
preventer.
   (e)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   APPROVED WATER METER.  A tele-tape remote readout electronic meter
and remote reader which is approved for installation or use by the Water
Division, distribution system, water works company or utility.
      (2)   UTILITY.  Any water works company, when engaged in the business of
supplying water through pipes or tubing or in a similar manner to consumers
within the city and includes the Water Division distribution system and the
water works company of any other political entity for the benefit of the city.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.09  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   Moneys received from the collection of the municipal water charges
authorized by this chapter shall be deposited daily with the Director of
Finance, who shall keep a separate and distinct fund and account to be known as
the Capital Improvements Fund. One dollar of the amount assessed for 1,000
cubic feet for municipal water charges, shall be deposited into this Fund. When
appropriated by Council, such Fund shall be available for the payment of the
cost and expense of payment of whatever charges which reflect the city’s
contribution in any governmental sponsored program designed to improve,
modernize or reconstruct the city’s infrastructure system.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 923.10  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (a)   If, in the judgment of the Service Director, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Service Director will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expense, install an approved device by the Service Director, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Service
Director.
   (b)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Service Director and by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of the Service Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Service Director shall deem
necessary.
   (d)   The Service Director or his or her duly authorized representative
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the city for
the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Service Director any information which he or she may use on such property. The
refusal of such information or entrance, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Service Director, be deemed evidence of the presence of
improper connections as provided in this section and be grounds for
discontinuance of water service as provided in division (e) below.
   (e)   The Service Director is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this section
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
   (f)   The Mayor shall have the authority to adopt further rules and
regulations for the protection of the public water system not inconsistent
herewith.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)  Penalty, see §
923.99
§ 923.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 927:  OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES
Section
927.01   Definitions
927.02   General prohibition on placement; purposes
927.03   Contracts with outdoor pay telephone owners; public right-of-way and
public property
927.04   Registration of outdoor pay telephones
927.05   Public nuisance; removal of outdoor pay telephones
927.06   Appeal
927.07   PUCO regulations
 
927.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Telephone offenses, see §§
537.10 et seq.
§ 927.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAYOR. The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee.
   OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONE.
      (1)   Any self-service, coin-operated, credit card-operated telephone
which is available at all hours for use by the general public and:
         A.   Is located on public property or in the public right-of-way and/
or outside of a building or structure which is used for residential or
commercial purposes in addition to the use of the telephone; and
         B.   Is available for use at all times by the general public.
      (2)   OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONE  include outdoor pay telephone booths and
stands, outdoor pay telephone drive-up and walk-up units, and outdoor pay
telephones which are affixed to the exterior walls of a building or structure.
   OWNER. A person in whom is vested ownership, dominion, control or title of
an outdoor pay telephone.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or legal entity of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any property other than the public right-of-way or public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All city-owned and/or managed property.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any way which has been deeded to the public or
dedicated to the public use for pedestrian or vehicular travel, and does not
include public property or property owned by a person other than the city.
   PUCO. The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.
   SPECIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE FEATURES.  Include the blocking of incoming calls
to a telephone, installation of rotary telephones or telephones that do not
permit “touch tone” dialing, restricting coin access to a telephone during late
evening and night hours, and such other service features as are acceptable to
the Mayor.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.02  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS ON PLACEMENT; PURPOSES.
   (a)   No person shall install, place or maintain an outdoor pay telephone
within the public right-of-way or on public property unless the owner of the
telephone has entered into a contract with the Mayor that grants to such owner
the privilege of installing and maintaining the outdoor pay telephone in the
public right-of-way or on public property. This prohibition applies to any
outdoor pay telephone installed and/or replaced after the effective date of
this chapter. All contracts entered into by the Mayor for the installation,
placement, replacement or maintenance of outdoor pay telephones within the
public right-of-way or on public property shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
927.03.
   (b)   No person shall install, place, replace or maintain an outdoor pay
telephone on property other than the public right-of-way or public property
unless the telephone has been registered in accordance with the requirements of
§
927.04.
   (c)   No new outdoor pay telephone may be located within a radius of 1,000
feet from any other existing outdoor pay telephone.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)  Penalty, see §
927.99
§ 927.03  CONTRACTS WITH OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONE OWNERS; PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND
PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   The Mayor shall have the authority to enter into contracts that grant
to one or more owners the privilege of installing and/or maintaining outdoor
pay telephones in the public rights-of-way, or on public property, subject to
the terms and conditions set forth in the contract and this section. The Mayor
shall enter into these contracts through the use of competitive proposals, with
the selection to be made by Council upon nomination of the Mayor.
   (b)   Any contract entered into pursuant to division (a) above must include
as terms and conditions:
      (1)   The Mayor shall approve the location of any outdoor pay telephone
to be installed and/or maintained pursuant to the contract. In determining
whether to approve the installation and/or maintenance of an outdoor pay
telephone at a particular location, the Mayor shall consider the following
factors:
         A.   Possible obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
         B.   Possible obstruction of police or fire access;
         C.   The existence of or lack of other pay telephones in the vicinity
of the proposed location on public or private property;
         D.   The size of the telephone and any booth, stand or pole
accompanying the telephone;
         E.   The ability to provide access to the outdoor pay telephone by
disabled persons;
         F.   The proliferation of visual clutter if the outdoor pay telephone
is installed in the proposed location; and
         G.   Such other factors as are delineated in the contract.
      (2)   A telephone approved for installation in the right-of-way shall be
installed within 30 days of the approval, or the approval shall be considered
void and no longer effective.
      (3)   In addition, the Mayor, the Police Chief and the members of City
Council may inquire whether these officials know of any reason why the
installation of the outdoor pay telephone should not be approved.
      (4)   Any outdoor pay telephone installed and/or maintained in accordance
with the contract must:
         A.   Be well-lighted at all times;
         B.   Must allow a “ direct dial” of 911 without the need to first use
a coin or a credit card or the need to dial the operator;
         C.   Have a functioning coin return mechanism;
         D.   Have affixed in a readily visible place a notice setting forth
the name of the owner, the owner’ s telephone number for repair and the
telephone number or serial number of the outdoor pay telephone;
         E.   Be maintained in a properly functioning, clean, neat and
attractive condition, free of rust and free of danger of electrical shock;
         F.   Not be used for advertising signs or publicity of any sort; and
         G.   Be in full compliance with all state and federal laws and
regulations, including this chapter.
      (5)   The owner of each outdoor pay telephone shall hold the city
harmless from any and all liability, for any reason whatsoever, occasioned upon
the installation and use of such telephone, other than liability arising from
any negligent act or omission which is solely attributable to the city, and
shall furnish, at said owner’s expense, such general commercial liability
insurance as shall protect said owner and the city from all claims for damage
to property or bodily injury, including death, which may arise from
installation, maintenance and operation of the telephone or in connection
therewith. Such policy shall name the city as an additional insured, shall be
in an amount to be determined by the Mayor, but not less than $100,000 combined
single limit for any injury to persons and/or damage to property, and shall
provide that the insurance coverage shall not be canceled or reduced by the
insurance carrier without 30 days’ prior written notice to the city. A
certificate of such insurance shall be provided to the Mayor at the time of
execution of the contract and shall be maintained before and during the
installation of any telephone in accordance with the contract and throughout
the period that the contract for any telephone is in effect.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.04  REGISTRATION OF OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES.
   (a)   Prior to the installation or placement of an outdoor pay telephone on
property other than on the public right-of-way or in public property, the owner
of the telephone shall submit a registration form with the Mayor containing the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the individual or other
person to whom the city shall serve in person or by mail any order required by
§
927.05;
      (3)   The serial number or telephone number, location and dimensions of
each outdoor pay telephone and the dimensions of any telephone enclosure for
which the registration is being made;
      (4)   A description of services provided users of the outdoor pay
telephone, including any special telephone service features;
      (5)   An affidavit that the proposed outdoor pay telephone or telephones
will be in compliance with all relevant city, state and federal laws and
regulations and this chapter;
      (6)   A disclosure of any violations, or license or permit suspensions or
revocations, involving the business or licensee, with regard to pay telephone
laws and regulations in other jurisdictions in which the business or licensee
conducts a pay telephone business; and
      (7)   Any other information as the Mayor deems necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (b)   One registration form may be submitted to include any number of
outdoor pay telephones and shall be signed by the owner.
   (c)   A $50 fee for each outdoor pay telephone must accompany the
registration form to defray the expenses incident to the administration of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   The owner shall promptly notify the Mayor in writing of any change in
the information required by division (a) above. If the owner proposes to change
the location of an outdoor pay telephone, a new registration form, together
with a $50 fee to defray the expenses incident to the administration of the
provisions of this chapter, must be filed prior to the change in location.
   (e)   Upon receipt of the information filed pursuant to division (a) above
and payment of the required fee to the Mayor, the Mayor shall provide written
verification to the owner that the outdoor pay telephones identified in the
form have been registered with the city and shall provide the owner with a
label to be affixed to each such telephone identifying the registration number
and location of the telephone.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.05  PUBLIC NUISANCE; REMOVAL OF OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES.
   (a)   Upon request of a majority of the members of City Council or upon
receipt of citizen complaints concerning an outdoor pay telephone, the Mayor
shall conduct an investigation into whether the installation and maintenance of
the outdoor pay telephone constitutes a public nuisance.
   (b)   Upon determination by the Mayor that a particular outdoor pay
telephone which has been installed and/or maintained in accordance with the
contract constitutes a public nuisance, the Mayor shall order that the
telephone be removed or that such special telephone service features as are
acceptable to the Mayor shall be provided by the outdoor pay telephone. A
particular outdoor pay telephone shall constitute a public nuisance when the
Mayor determines that one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The outdoor pay telephone has been used in the commission of
illegal drug transactions or other criminal activity, or substantially
contributes by its presence to the commission of illegal drug transactions or
other criminal activity as evidenced by significant number of such crimes
occurring in the vicinity of the telephone;
      (2)   The existence of the outdoor pay telephone has substantially
contributed by its presence to the congregation of persons who have made loud
noises and other disturbances that have disrupted persons residing near the
telephone or disrupted business enterprises located near the telephone;
      (3)   The existence of the outdoor pay telephone has substantially
contributed by its presence to the congregation of persons consuming alcoholic
beverages, except where such consumption is expressly authorized by a state
license;
      (4)   The existence of the outdoor pay telephone has resulted in the
congregation of persons who have interfered with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic in the public right-of-way near the telephone;
      (5)   Usage of the outdoor pay telephone between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. is significantly and repeatedly above normal usage for similarly
situated outdoor pay telephones during the same hours so as to indicate that
the telephone is being used in the commission of illegal drug activity or other
criminal activity; and/or
      (6)   The pay telephone has been used to abuse the 911 system.
   (c)   Any outdoor pay telephone installed or maintained in violation of the
contract and the requirements of this chapter shall be subject to an order
issued by the Mayor of immediate removal at the owner’s expense. The owner
shall remove the outdoor pay telephone within five working days of an order to
remove the telephone and shall restore the public right-of-way or public
property to its original condition. Any outdoor pay telephone which is not
removed within five working days of an order to remove the telephone shall be
subject to immediate removal by the city at the owner’s expense and shall
constitute a default of the owner’s contract. The owner must reimburse the city
for the cost of removing and storing the telephone before the telephone may be
reclaimed by the owner. Such costs shall also include the cost of removing any
installation ancillary to the outdoor pay telephone and the cost of restoring
the public right-of-way or public property to its original condition.
   (d)   If an outdoor pay telephone has been removed from a location because
it is a nuisance, no other pay telephone may be installed at the same location
or within 1,000 feet of that location for a minimum of one year.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.06  APPEAL.
   (a)   The owner of an outdoor pay telephone may appeal from an order of
removal issued pursuant to §
927.05 to the Board of Zoning Appeals within five working days after receipt of
the order.
   (b)   The order of removal shall be stayed during the pendency of the appeal
before the Board. The Board shall commence to hear the merits of an appeal
within 30 days of the filing of an appeal. The Board shall render a decision
within ten days of the date of the hearing, which decision may affirm,
disaffirm or grant exception from the order, requirement, decision or
determination from which the appeal has been taken.
   (c)   If the Board affirms an order of the Mayor issued pursuant to §
927.05, the owner shall have three working days to remove the outdoor pay
telephone in question; if the owner fails to correct the violation within that
time, the outdoor pay telephone may be removed by the Mayor at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.07  PUCO REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be read so as to limit the authority of the
PUCO to regulate outdoor pay telephones within the city.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 927.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any section of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100 for a first offense and not more than $250 for a second or subsequent
offense. Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 24-98, passed 3-17-1998)
CHAPTER 929:  ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLEGAL CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
929.01   Purpose and scope
929.02   Applicability
929.03   Definitions
929.04   Disclaimer of liability
929.05   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
929.06   Enforcement
929.07   Remedies not exclusive
§ 929.01  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the chapter of illicit
discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4). This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the MS4
in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process as required by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency (Ohio EPA).
   (b)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4;
and
      (2)   To establish legal authority to carry out inspections, monitoring
procedures and enforcement actions necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 929.02  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional facilities responsible for discharges to the MS4 and on any lands
in the city, except for those discharges generated by the activities detailed
in this chapter.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 929.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).   Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to storm water. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   COMMUNITY. The city, its designated representatives, boards or commissions.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY  or UNITED STALES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY (USEPA).  The United States Environmental Protection Agency, including,
but not limited to, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA), or any
duly authorized official of said agency.
   FLOATABLE MATERIAL.  In general, this term means any foreign matter that may
float or remain suspended in the water column, and includes, but is not limited
to, plastic, aluminum cans, wood products, bottles and paper products.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  Any material including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL CONNECTION.  Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, that allows an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  As defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(2), means any
discharge to an MS4 that is not composed entirely of storm water, except for
those discharges to an MS4 pursuant to a NPDES permit or noted in this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4).  As defined at 40 C.F.R. §
122.26(b)(8), municipal separate storm sewer means a conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains):
      (1)   Owned or operated by a state, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, municipality, township, county, district, association or other public
body (created by or pursuant to state law) having jurisdiction over sewage,
industrial wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer
district, or similar entity, or an Native American tribe or an authorized
Native American tribal organization, or a designated and approved management
agency under § 208 of the Clean Water Act that discharges to waters of the
United States;
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water;
      (3)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as
defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   OFF-LOT DISCHARGING HOME SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM.  A system designed to
treat home sewage on-site and discharges treated wastewater effluent off the
property into a storm water or surface water conveyance or system.
   OWNER/OPERATOR.  Any individual, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or on the owner's behalf.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents, oil and other
automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, floatable
materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous materials, wastes,
sewage, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes, residues that result
from constructing a structure, and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   STORM WATER.  Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of a source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 929.04  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law. The
provisions of this chapter are promulgated to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any individual or
for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 929.05  CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Where this chapter is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the city, shall
prevail.
   (b)   If any clause, section or provision of this chapter is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
      (1)   Establishment of an illicit discharge and illegal connection
monitoring program. The city shall establish a program to detect and eliminate
illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4. This program shall
include the mapping of the MS4, the routine inspection of storm water outfalls
to the MS4 and the systematic investigation of potential residential,
commercial, industrial and institutional facilities for the sources of any dry
weather flows found as the result of these inspections.
      (2)   Inspection of residential, commercial industrial or institutional
facilities.
         A.   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance
with this chapter.
         B.   The city shall have the right to set up, at facilities subject to
this chapter, such devices as are necessary to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility's storm water discharge, as determined by the city.
         C.   The city shall have the right to require the facility owner/
operator to install monitoring equipment as necessary. This sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in safe and proper
operating condition by the facility owner/operator at the owner/operator's
expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be
calibrated by the city to ensure their accuracy.
         D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and reasonable
access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed
by the facility's owner/operator at the written or oral request of the city and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
facility owner/operator.
         E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a facility
subject to this chapter for the purposes of illicit discharge inspection is a
violation of this chapter.
         F.   If the city is refused access to any part of the facility from
which storm water is discharged, and the city demonstrates probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of an inspection and sampling program designed
to verity compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, the city may seek issuance of a
search warrant, civil remedies including but not limited to injunctive relief,
and/or criminal remedies from any court of appropriate jurisdiction.
         G.   Any costs associated with these inspections shall be assessed to
the facility owner/operator.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 929.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Notice of violation. When the city finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may order
compliance by written notice of violation. Such notice must specify the
violation and shall be hand delivered, and/or sent by registered mail, to the
owner/operator of the facility. Such notice may require the following actions:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit discharges or illegal connections;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; or
      (5)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (b)   Deadline for completion. If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice of violation shall set
forth a deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be
completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the facility owner/
operator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, a legal
action for enforcement may be initiated.
   (c)   Compliance standards. Any person receiving a notice of violation must
meet compliance standards within the time established in the notice of
violation.
   (d)   Administrative hearing. If the violation has not been corrected
pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, the city
shall schedule an administrative hearing to determine reasons for non-
compliance and to determine the next enforcement activity. Notice of the
administrative hearing shall be hand delivered and/or sent registered mail.
   Note: Communities need to determine appropriate body to hear this, such as
Board of Zoning Appeals, Planning Commission, or other legislative body.
   (e)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any owner/operator to
violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter pursuant to O.R.C. 3709.211. If a owner/operator has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter. The city may petition for
a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the owner/operator from
activities that would create further violations or compelling the owner/
operator to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 929.07  REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is in the
discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 13-16, passed 10-4-2016)
TITLE 5:  OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
   Chapter
      
931   Parks and Playgrounds
      
933   Recreational Activities
      
935   Day Camp
      
937   Trees and Shrubs
      
939   Waste Collection and Disposal
      
941   Civic Center
      
945   Helen S. Brown Senior Citizen Center
CHAPTER 931: PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
Section
931.01   Definitions
931.02   Destruction of property
931.03   Preservation of trees, shrubs and grass
931.04   Rubbish, spitting and water pollution
931.05   Advertising and littering prohibited
931.06   Intoxicating liquor or drugs
931.07   Disorderly conduct
931.08   Permits generally; liability of permittee
931.09   Permit required for meetings, exhibitions, parades and racing
931.10   Picnic permits required; use of tables and ovens
931.11   Protection of wild life
931.12   Fires; discarding lighted cigarettes and matches
931.13   Boating at Forest Hill Park
931.14   Bathing prohibited
931.15   Skating and toy vehicles
931.16   Camping prohibited
931.17   Toy aviation and kite flying
931.18   Throwing objects
931.19   Animals at large
931.20   Loitering and curfew
931.21   Tennis courts; baseball fields; permits and fees
931.22   Use of vehicles and bicycles
931.23   Vehicle repairs prohibited
931.24   Signs prohibited
 
931.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see Ohio R.C. 715.21, 719.01
§ 931.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOT PATH  or TRAIL.  Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city, having jurisdiction of parks, park streets and
all other property under his or her control by virtue of the provisions of City
Charter § 24.
   OWNER. Any person owning, operating or having the use or control of a
vehicle, animal or other property under a lease or otherwise.
   PARK. Unless specifically limited, means and includes all parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, tennis courts and other recreation areas, places,
squares, circles, spurs, open places, boulevards, waters and lands under water,
and also entrances and approaches thereto and bridges, in, leading to or
connecting such park or parks, or parts thereof, under the jurisdiction of the
Mayor and such other rights and appurtenances as the Mayor shall utilize,
whether the same be now or hereafter owned or acquired by the city in fee or
otherwise.
   PARK GUARDS (WATCHMEN).  Any person designated by the Mayor to enforce the
rules and regulations of the park and govern conduct in the park.
   PARK STREET.  Street, avenue, boulevard or other highway under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor and all streets bordering a park to the full width
thereof.
   PERMIT. Any written authorization issued by or under the authority of the
Mayor for a specified park privilege permitting the performance of a specified
act or acts in any park.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, society, organization of persons,
company association, joint stock association, firm or copartnership.
   PLAYGROUND AREA.  Any area designated as a playground and includes all
territory under the jurisdiction of the Mayor adjacent to and within 12 feet
thereof.
   PLAYGROUND SUPERVISOR.  Any person designated by the Mayor to supervise
recreation facilities.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS.  Any rule or regulation of the Mayor established
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)
§ 931.02  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Injure, deface, displace, remove, fill in, raise, destroy or tamper
with any drive, path, walk, bridge or approach thereto;
      (2)   Take up, remove or carry away any asphalt, curb, flagstone, rock,
stone, gravel, sand, clay or earth;
      (3)   Make any excavation of any kind, name or nature;
      (4)   Harvest, cut, damage or remove any ice;
      (5)   Injure, mutilate, deface, displace, remove or destroy any wall,
fence, shelter, seat, statute, monument or other structure, building, post,
railing, bench seat, platform, stand, tree guard, telephone, telegraph, pipe or
main for conducting gas, water or wires, or any hydrant, sewer, drain, pipe,
main, receiving basin, covering, manhole or vent forming a part thereof or any
appurtenance or appendage conforming therewith, or any other property or
equipment, real or personal, owned by the city or under the jurisdiction or
control of the Mayor, or appertaining to the creation, government, use or
maintenance of any park or park street;
      (6)   Injure, deface, displace, remove or destroy any sign, notice,
inscription, post or monument erected or marked for any purpose, or any mile-
board, mile-stone, danger sign or signal, guide, sign or post, or any signaling
device sanctioned, installed or placed by the Mayor or by the Police Department
within any park or upon any park street for the purpose of directing,
restricting or regulating traffic, establishing zones or giving information or
directions to the public; or
      (7)   Interfere with or damage any lamp, lamppost, electric light bulb or
apparatus, turn on or extinguish the light therein, or attach, string, adjust
or carry any wires or similar object in, on or over any part of any park or
park street.
   (b)   Any person doing any act injurious to a park or park street may be
removed therefrom by a police officer or park employee. When necessary to the
protection of life or property, such officer or park employee may remove any
and all persons from any designated part thereof.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.03  PRESERVATION OF TREES, SHRUBS AND GRASS.
   No person shall in any park or park street destroy, cut, break, deface,
mutilate, injure, disturb, sever from the ground or remove any growing thing,
including, but not limited to, any plant, flower, flowerbed, shrub, tree,
growth or any branch, stem, fruit or leaf thereof; bring into any park or park
street any tool or instrument, such as a hatchet, axe or saw, for the cutting
thereof, or any spade, shovel, rake, hoe or any of the so-called garden or
agricultural implements or tools for the removal thereof; pile or maintain any
material or debris of any kind against or upon the same; attach any rope, cable
or other contrivance thereto; set fire or assist another to set fire to any
timber, tree, shrubs, plants, flowers, grass or plant growth, or suffer any
fire upon any other land to extend into park lands; hitch any horse or animal
to or leave the same standing near enough to injure any lawn or grass plot; or
go upon the same, except at such times when permission to do so shall have been
given by the Mayor to the public.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.04  RUBBISH, SPITTING AND WATER POLLUTION.
   (a)   Rubbish and refuse matter. No person shall take into, carry through,
leave in or throw, place, lay, drop or discharge into or on, or suffer or
permit any servant, agent, employee or person in his or her charge to take
into, carry through, leave in or throw, cast, lay, drop or discharge into or on
any park or park street any rubbish of any sort including, but not limited to,
ashes, dross, cinders, shells, fruit, fruit skins, vegetable foodstuffs, paper,
pasteboard, dirt, sand, oil, grease, clay, loan, stone or building rubbish,
hay, straw, oats, sawdust, shavings, or manufacturing, trade or household
waste, vehicles or parts thereof such as junk, old iron or other metal or
objects made therefrom; or sick, diseased or dead animals, organic refuse or
other offensive matter, including swill, brine, urine, offal, fecal matter,
garbage or rubbish.
   (b)   Spitting prohibited. No person shall in any park or park street spit
upon any walk, crossing, safety zone structure, bridge, platform, stairway or
floor of any building.
   (c)   Pollution of waters. No person shall throw, cast, lay, drop or
discharge into or leave in the waters used for bathing or waters in any park,
or in any storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter
or thing, liquid or solid, which may or shall result in the pollution of such
waters.
   (d)   Drains and sewers. No person shall discharge, directly or indirectly,
into any opening or into any gutter leading into any sewer, receiving basin or
drain in or leading into any park or park street, any gas or vapor, or any
substance which may form a deposit tending to choke same, or any volatile
liquid which will emit a flammable vapor at a temperature below 160°F, or any
steam or hot water above 100°F.
   (e)   Protection of bathing area. No person shall throw, cast, lay or
deposit any bottle or piece of crockery, or any glass or glassware or any part
thereof, or metallic or other substance with sharp edges or projections on any
bathing area in, on or adjoining any park.
   (f)   Throwing objects. No person shall throw, drop or discharge any stones
or other objects from a footbridge or any other place in the park.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.05  ADVERTISING AND LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post any bill, placard, notice or other paper upon any
structure, tree, rock, article or thing within any park, or upon any park
street, or paint or affix thereon, in any other way, any advertisement, notice
or exhortation. No person shall distribute, hand out, deliver, place, cast
about or leave about any bill, billboard, ticket, handbill, card, placard,
circular, pamphlet or display any flag, banner, transparency, target, sign,
placard or any matter for advertising purposes, or operate any musical
instrument or drum within any park or upon any park street, or cause any noise
to be made for advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting attention
to any exhibition, performance, show or other purpose, within any park or upon
any park street. The placing, or using for any other purpose than reading, of
newspapers or other papers on the boardwalks or on the lawns or benches of
public parks is prohibited.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.06  INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   No person shall take, sell, give away, carry, use or drink any beer, wine,
intoxicating liquor or drugs of abuse in the park, or enter or be allowed to
remain in the park under the influence of beer, wine, intoxicating liquor or
drugs of abuse.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.07  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person committing any of the following acts shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor:
   (a)   Disobeying an order of a police officer, park employee or other person
designated by the Mayor to give orders, or disobeying the notices,
prohibitions, instructions or directions on any park sign;
   (b)   Using threatening, abusive or insulting language;
   (c)   Doing any obscene or indecent act;
   (d)   Throwing stones or other missiles;
   (e)   Soliciting alms, subscriptions or contributions for any purpose;
   (f)   Annoying persons;
   (g)   Interfering with, encumbering, obstructing or rendering dangerous any
drive, path, walk, dock, boardwalk or public place;
   (h)   Climbing or lying upon any wall, fence, shelter, seat, statute,
monument, boardwalk or other structure;
   (i)   Doing any act tending to or amounting to a breach of the peace;
   (j)   Entering or leaving any park area except at established entrance ways
or exits or at established times; or using or gaining admittance to or
attempting to use or gain admittance to the facilities in any park for the use
of which a charge is made without paying the charge or price fixed by city
ordinance;
   (k)   Engaging in, instigating, siding or encouraging a contention or fight,
whether or not a ring or prize fight;
   (l)   Assaulting any person;
   (m)   Doing, aiding, abetting or assisting in doing any act injurious to any
person, animal or property within any park or on any park street not
specifically prohibited herein;
   (n)   Playing any game for money or other thing of value or making a wager
for money or other thing of value;
   (o)   Any person acting as crier or advertiser through the media of voice,
public address system or other mechanical device shall be guilty of violating
these rules and regulations; or
   (p)   Any person making any indecent exposure of his or her person or
appearing without upper and lower garments in any city park.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.08  PERMITS GENERALLY; LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   A permit to do any act shall authorize the same only insofar as it may be
performed in strict accordance with the written terms and conditions thereof.
Any violation of any law or ordinance, or rule or regulation of the Mayor, by
the holder or the agents or employees of the holder of any term or condition
thereof shall constitute grounds for revocation by the Mayor or by his or her
authorized representative, whose action therein shall be final. In case of
revocation of any permit, all moneys paid for or on account thereof shall, at
the option of the Mayor, be forfeited to and be retained by the city. The
holder of such permit, together with his or her agents and employees who
violated such terms and conditions, shall be jointly and severally liable to
the city for all damages and loss suffered by it in excess of money so
forfeited and retained, but neither such forfeiture and retention by the city
of the whole or any part of such moneys nor the recovery or collection thereby
of such damages, nor both, shall in any manner relieve such person from
liability to punishment for any violation of any law, ordinance, rule or
regulation of the city.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)
§ 931.09  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR MEETINGS, EXHIBITIONS, PARADES AND RACING.
   No person shall erect any structure, stand or platform, hold or attend any
public meeting, discussion or debate, perform any ceremony or make a speech,
address or harangue; exhibit any sign, placard, notice, declaration or appeal
of any kind or description; exhibit to the public any dramatic performance, or
the performance in whole or in part of any interlude, tragedy, comedy, opera,
ballet, play, farce, minstrelsy, dancing, entertainment, motion picture, public
fair, circus, juggling, rope-walking or any other acrobatics or show of any
kind or nature; or run or race any horse or other animal or, being in a
vehicle, race with another vehicle or horse, whether such race be founded on
any stake, bet or otherwise; in any park or upon any park street except by
permit. No parade, drill or maneuver of any kind shall be conducted, nor shall
any procession form for parade or proceed in any park or park street without a
permit.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.10  PICNIC PERMITS REQUIRED; USE OF TABLES AND OVENS.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except with the written permission of the Mayor or
Director of the Parks and Recreation Department, shall hold or attend any
picnic or gathering of any kind on or within park property, except that family
parties of small groups of picnickers will not be required to obtain such
written permission. All organized picnics or outings shall obtain permits from
the Mayor previous to entering any park.
      (2)   No person or persons shall use the picnic tables and ovens any
longer than necessary to prepare and consume their food. No picnic table shall
be used for any games, card playing or loitering. No picnic table shall be
moved except by permission from the park employee and, if removed with
permission, must be returned by persons using it to its original location. No
reservation shall be made for any picnic table or oven, nor shall any person
take possession of any picnic table and oven before it is to be used by him or
her for eating facilities.
   (b)   A deposit of $25 shall be made to offset potential damages to picnic
sites, which deposit may be refundable to residents of the city but shall not
refundable to nonresidents, and the fees for use of the picnic sites and the
capacity of the same shall be as follows.
Site Tables Grills Capacity Fee
Site Tables Grills                                 Capacity  Fee
1    8      3 - Sheltered playground area          250       $50
2    5      3 - Tot-lot play area, playground area 200       $50
3    2      1                                      25        $15
4    2      1                                      25        $15
5    1      1                                      10        $10
6    1      1                                      25        $15
7    1      1                                      25        $15
8    7      3                                      250 - 300 $50
9    3      2 - Playground area, tot-lot           100 - 150 $50
10   1      1                                      25        $15
11   1      1                                      25        $15
12   2      1                                      25        $15
13   2      1                                      25        $15
14   4      3 - Tot-lot playground area            250 - 300 $50
15   1      1                                      10        $10
 
   (c)   Forest Hill Park rentals.
 
Site                           Fee              Deposit
Boathouse with electricity     $75 Resident     $100 deposit, refundable only
(weekends and holidays)        $100 Nonresident if area left clean
Boathouse with electricity     $60 Resident     $50 deposit, refundable only if
(weekdays)                     $90 Nonresident  area left clean
Area #1 Lower Valley (weekends $75 Resident     $100 deposit, refundable only
and holidays)                  $100 Nonresident if area left clean
Area #1 Lower Valley (weekends $50 Resident     $50 deposit, refundable only if
and holidays)                  $65 Nonresident  area left clean
All other areas (weekends and  $20 Resident     $25 deposit, refundable only if
holidays)                      $30 Nonresident  area left clean
All other areas (weekdays)     $15 Resident     $25 deposit, refundable only if
                               $25 Nonresident  area left clean
 
(Ord. 106-03, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 44-10, passed 9-8-2010)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.11  PROTECTION OF WILD LIFE.
   No person shall, except under a permit from the Mayor, within any park,
molest, kill, wound, trap, hunt, take, chase, shoot or throw missiles at,
remove or have in his or her possession any feral animal, the fish within the
Forest Hills Park Pond, reptile, bird, bird’s nest or squirrel’s nest or remove
the young of any such animal or the eggs of young of any such reptile or bird
or knowingly buy, receive, have in its possession, sell or give away any such
animal, reptile, bird or egg, so killed or taken.
(Ord, 71-92, passed 6-20-1992)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.12  FIRES; DISCARDING LIGHTED CIGARETTES AND MATCHES.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except in fireplaces
provided for the purpose or under special permit. Any such fire shall be
continuously under the care and direction of a competent person over 21 years
of age from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished, and no fire shall
be built within ten feet of any tree or building, or beneath the branches of
any trees or in any underbrush. No person shall throw away or discard any
lighted match, cigar or cigarette within, on or against any building,
structure, boat, car, vehicle or enclosure or under any tree or in underbrush
or grass, unless it be to deposit the same in a suitable container provided for
the reception thereof.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.13  BOATING AT FOREST HILL PARK.
   A person may, with a permit from the Mayor and with appropriate insurance
and appropriate safeguards, operate a row boat, canoe or raft and no other type
of watercraft in, on or upon the lake at Forest Hill Park.
(Ord. 107-03, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 931.14  BATHING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bathe, wade or swim in any lake, brook, creek or stream in
Forest Hill Park or in any other city park of city property.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.15  SKATING AND TOY VEHICLES.
   No person shall use roller skates in any park except at such time and upon
such places as may be designated therefor, nor shall anyone walk, skate, sled
or coast on the ice until the Mayor has ascertained the condition of the same
and given permission, nor shall anyone coast with hand sleds, bobsleds, carts
or other vehicles on wheels or runners except with the permission of and in a
location approved by the Mayor.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.16  CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tent or camp or erect or maintain a tent or camp in any
park.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.17  TOY AVIATION AND KITE FLYING.
   No person shall engage in toy aviation or kite flying in any park, except at
places designated therefor.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.18  THROWING OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, catch, kick or strike any baseball, golf ball,
tennis ball, football, basketball, bowling ball, croquet ball, bean bag, horse
shoes, darts, arrows or other objects in any park except in places designated
therefor.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.19  ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   Editor’s note: The provisions of this section were repealed by Ord. 6849,
passed April 20, 1976.
§ 931.20  LOITERING AND CURFEW.
   No person shall, under any circumstances, loiter or remain in Forest Hill
Park after 10:00 p.m., or enter the park before 6:00 a.m. No person shall,
under any circumstances, loiter or remain in other city parks after 10:30 p.m.,
or enter any other city parks before 6:00 a.m. However, the Mayor may establish
earlier closing hours throughout the year at his or her discretion and may at
his or her further discretion establish a later closing hour for the lighted
outdoor facilities in Forest Hill Park, together with the parking area and
support facilities appurtenant to such outdoor facilities; provided however,
that not less than 50% of the lighted tennis courts will be available at all
times until 11:00 p.m. during the posted tennis season which shall run from May
1 to October 15 of each year.
(Ord. 7403, passed 4-15-1980)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.21  TENNIS COURTS; BASEBALL FIELDS; PERMITS AND FEES.
   (a)   No person shall use any tennis court owned and operated by the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Mayor giving the permission to
do so. The charge for a permit to use and reserve a tennis court per weekly
session shall be $100 for resident teams and $300 for nonresident teams; the
fee for single games (not more than four hours per game) shall be $50 for
resident teams and $75 for nonresident teams; the fee for doubleheaders (not
more than seven hours in total) shall be $100 for resident teams and $125 for
nonresident teams; night game fees will be an additional $50 for resident teams
and an additional $100 for nonresident teams.
   (b)   No person shall use any baseball field owned and operated by the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Mayor giving the permission to
do so. The charge for a permit to use and reserve a baseball field per weekly
session shall be $100 for a league of resident teams; and $300 for a league of
nonresident teams; the fee for single games shall be $50 for resident teams and
$75 for nonresident teams; the fee for doubleheaders shall be $100 for resident
teams and $125 for nonresident teams; night game fees will be an additional $50
for resident teams and an additional $100 for nonresident teams.
(Ord. 55-04, passed 4-20-2004)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.22  USE OF VEHICLES AND BICYCLES.
   (a)   No automobiles or other vehicles, except police cars and authorized
city equipment, shall be permitted in or upon any part of parks other than the
designated parking areas. The parking area adjoining the bowling green shall be
used only by bowling green participants and their guests.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be operated or driven anywhere in parks except on
roadways and paths not otherwise restricted and posted by the Mayor.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.23  VEHICLE REPAIRS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall clean, grease, lubricate or make repairs to any vehicle in
any park or park streets, except those repairs of a minor nature and then only
in cases of emergency.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.24  SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect any sign in any park or on any park property in the
city.
(Ord. 3759, passed 7-14-1942)  Penalty, see §
931.99
§ 931.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
CHAPTER 933:  RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Section
933.01   Pass fees; nontransferability
933.02   Service charges for admission without pass
933.03   Rules and regulations by Mayor
Cross-reference:
   Conduct in parks and playgrounds, see
Ch. 931
§ 933.01  PASS FEES; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
Individual tennis - outdoor
Photo I.D. required $2
Resident            $10
Nonresident         $20
Family tennis - outdoor (includes five immediate family members.)
Resident            $20
                    $5 each additional member
Nonresident         $30
                    $5 each additional member
Photo I.D. required $2
Student tennis - outdoor
Photo I.D. required $2
Pass/fee resident   $4
Nonresident         $7
Visitors - tennis strips
Strip of five       $5
No pass provided for in this section shall be transferable from one person to
another.
 
(Ord. 29-92, passed 3-17-1992)
§ 933.02  SERVICE CHARGES FOR ADMISSION WITHOUT PASS.
   (a)   Except for children under six years of age accompanied by their parent
or guardian, the following service charge shall be made for nonholders of a
recreation activity pass for the use of the Civic Center and tennis courts.
   (b)   For the use of the tennis courts under such limitations as to time and
amount of play as the Mayor may determine, per person, per day: $3.
(Ord. 7644, passed 5-31-1983)
§ 933.03  RULES AND REGULATIONS BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to establish and enforce such rules and
regulations for the use and operation of the Civic Center, tennis courts and
other recreational facilities of the city as he or she may deem necessary in
the interest of public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 6304, passed 11-3-1971)
CHAPTER 935:  DAY CAMP
Section
935.01   Fee established
935.02   Disposition of money collected
§ 935.01  FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   Regular day care. A fee of $90 per child for each regular two-week
summer day camp period; and special fees for two or more children (immediate
family members only) are hereby established.
 
First child  $90
Second child $80
Third child  $70
A fee of $2 will be added to nonresidents enrolled in the camp program.
 
   (b)   Extended day camp.
 
First child  $110
Second child $100
Third child  $90
 
(Ord. 43-00, passed 4-4-2000)
§ 935.02  DISPOSITION OF MONEY COLLECTED.
   The proceeds from such fee shall be set aside in a special fund and used
only for the purpose of defraying a part of the cost of operating such day
camp.
(Ord. 5897, passed 6-18-1968)
CHAPTER 937:  TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
937.01   Definitions
937.02   Trees endangering streets or other public property; removal
937.03   Trees endangering private property; removal
937.04   Height of hedge or fence on corner lot
 
937.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tree protection in parks, see §
931.03
   Weed removal required, see §
1379.06
§ 937.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of the premises, including the holder of title
thereto, subject to contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee
or receiver in possession, a lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof, or
an agent or any other person, firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in
control of the premises.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property not included in the definition of “public
property” below, including, but not limited to, vacant land or to any land,
building or other structure designed or used for residential, commercial,
business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All property owned, operated or controlled by any
governmental agency, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, tree
lawns, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, schools, libraries, post offices,
municipal transit faculties and all other public lands and buildings.
(Ord. 5673, passed 10-11-1965)
§ 937.02  TREES ENDANGERING STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY; REMOVAL.
   Wherever a tree is located upon private property and such tree or a part
thereof is found to be in a dead, decayed, dying or dangerous condition and is
so located that if such tree fell, or such part thereof broke off and fell, it
could endanger life or property upon a street or upon other public property,
the Mayor shall give written notice by personal service or by certified or
registered mail to the owner of the property upon which such tree is located to
remove such tree or part thereof within 30 days of the date of service or
mailing of such notice. Upon failure of the owner of such premises to remove
such tree or part thereof within 30 days, he or she shall be subject to the
penalties set forth hereinafter.
(Ord. 5673, passed 10-11-1965)
§ 937.03  TREES ENDANGERING PRIVATE PROPERTY; REMOVAL.
   Wherever a tree is located upon private property and such tree or a part
thereof is found to be in a dead, decayed, dying or dangerous condition and is
so located that if such tree fell, or such part thereof broke off and fell, it
could endanger life or property upon the premises where such tree is located or
upon other private property, the Mayor shall give written notice by personal
service or by certified or registered mail to the owner of the property upon
which such tree is located to remove such tree or part thereof within 30 days
of the date of service or mailing of such notice. Upon failure of the owner of
such premises to remove such tree or part thereof within 30 days, he or she
shall be subject to the penalties set forth hereinafter.
(Ord. 5673, passed 10-11-1965)
§ 937.04  HEIGHT OF HEDGE OR FENCE ON CORNER LOT.
   No hedge or close-built fence shall be maintained upon corner lots abutting
upon the public streets except in accordance with §
1125.06 of the Planning and Zoning Code.
§ 937.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
937.01 through
937.03, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
937.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both, for each such violation. Every day that such violation shall
continue, after a notice in writing has been served upon the owner of the lot
or parcel of land upon which such violation occurs, shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 5673, passed 10-11-1965)
CHAPTER 939:  WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
939.01   Definitions
939.02   Prohibited waste materials
939.03   Separation of combustible and noncombustible wastes
939.04   Waste containers
939.05   Nonacceptable waste containers
939.06   Confiscation of containers
939.07   Setting out containers
939.08   Responsibility for providing containers
939.09   Garbage to be dry and wrapped
939.10   Garbage to be placed in containers promptly
939.11   Loose materials
939.12   Bulky articles
939.13   Depositing garbage on public or private property
939.14   Depositing other waste on public or private property
939.15   Accumulations a nuisance
939.16   Upsetting waste containers
939.17   Street waste receptacles
939.18   Origin of waste material
939.19   Private collection, transportation and disposal; fee
939.20   Private scavenging
939.21   Private incineration
939.22   Garbage or waste in sewer system
939.23   Private vehicles for garbage, manure and the like
939.24   Vehicles with offensive loads
939.25   Vehicles; storage and cleaning
939.26   Haulers to avoid spillage
939.27   Removal of dead animals
939.28   Authority of Mayor; appeals; penalty; waiver
939.29   Disposal of waste restricted
939.30   Refuse collection for residential units
 
939.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Ch. 527
   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud, see §
339.08
   Open burning, see
Ch. 1511
§ 939.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue of the combustion of any type of solid fuel such as wood,
coal, coke, charcoal and like substances.
   BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION WASTES.  Waste materials and rubbish resulting from
the construction, alteration or repair of buildings and structures such as
walls, driveways, sidewalks and the like, and consists of wood, plaster, metal,
cement, lime, brick, mortar, concrete, lathing, roofing, earth, stone, slag,
cinders, structural members and like material. Large quantities (in excess of
75 pounds or 21 gallons) of such material will not be collected by the city.
   COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.  Discarded, relatively dry, miscellaneous refuse material
of either domestic or commercial origin which is capable of incineration or
burning in a high temperature furnace, including wood, paper, newspaper,
magazines, rags, excelsior, straw, leather, rubber, cardboard boxes and
cartons, small tree branches and trimmings, shrubbery trimmings, leaves, grass,
yard and garden rakings and other similar discarded articles of a combustible
nature. Tin cans, glass, crockery, metal and like materials are excluded from
COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.
   DEAD ANIMALS.  The carcasses of dogs, cats, horses and all dead animals of
like size, as distinguished from the carcasses of birds and small animals such
as rats or mice.
   EXTRAORDINARY COMMERCIAL WASTES.  Combustible wastes that accumulate in
connection with the operation of the above enumerated enterprises, in excess of
the quantity defined as ordinary commercial wastes.
   GARBAGE. All waste, animal, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter produced
from or resulting from the use and storage of food for human consumption, of
either domestic or commercial origin, and includes: spoiled food; meat scraps;
and bones and the heads, feet, entrails and feathers of chickens and other
fowl. Carcasses of small dead animals and birds shall be included as GARBAGE.
Carcasses of dead cats, dogs and large animals will be classed as dead animals
and are not to be considered as GARBAGE. Horse, dog, cat and other animal or
bird manure is not acceptable as GARBAGE.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  Wastes that result from manufacturing, industrial and
wholesale businesses. Such wastes will not be collected by the city.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE WASTE.  Discarded miscellaneous refuse of either domestic or
commercial origin which is incapable of being burned or incinerated. It
includes tin cans, bottles, jars and other glassware, crockery and other
earthenware, downspouts, guttering and other tinware, auto parts, pipe and
other metallic substances, including bed springs and metal furniture. All
discarded articles, an appreciable part of which is incapable of incineration
or burning, such as door and window screens, window sash, spring upholstered
furniture, innerspring mattresses and the like shall be classed as
NONCOMBUSTIBLE WASTE.
   ORDINARY COMMERCIAL WASTES.  A defined quantity of general and usual
combustible wastes that accumulate in connection with the operation of any
retail grocery, fruit and vegetable store, meat market, restaurant or
cafeteria, club, lodge, church, hospital or any commercial enterprise for
profit which produces garbage and combustible waste in appreciable quantities
as a result of the operation of such business. Such waste shall include garbage
and combustible waste as herein defined, but shall exclude ashes and
noncombustible waste. The Mayor shall define the limits for the quantity of
ORDINARY COMMERCIAL WASTES as distinguished from extraordinary commercial
wastes.
   WASTE  or REFUSE.  All trash, rubbish, garbage, offal, ashes and other
refuse or discarded matter required to be removed from public and private
places. It does not include recognized by-products of any business or industry
having commercial value and regularly handled in the ordinary course of
business, unless such by-products or the handling of them shall become a
nuisance or menace to the public health.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.02  PROHIBITED WASTE MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as herein provided, the city will not collect the following
waste materials:
      (1)   Large quantities (in excess of 75 pounds or 21 gallons) of building
or construction waste;
      (2)   Extraordinary commercial waste;
      (3)   Industrial wastes;
      (4)   Ashes or noncombustible waste from enterprises enumerated in the
definition of ordinary commercial wastes in §
939.01;
      (5) Combustible wastes from enterprises enumerated in the definition of
ordinary commercial wastes in §
939.01 unless such enterprises also normally produce appreciable quantities of
garbage; or
      (6)   Tree trunks, tree stumps and large tree branches.
   (b)   Except as herein provided, the city will neither collect nor dispose
of the following waste materials:
      (1)   Poisons, explosives, manure or articles infected with a contagious
disease;
      (2)   Waste material originating outside the corporate limits of the
city; or
      (3)   Waste material prepared, separated or stored in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.03  SEPARATION OF COMBUSTIBLE AND NONCOMBUSTIBLE WASTES.
   Within defined limits, the city will collect combustible waste and garbage
from enterprises that generate garbage, provided that such enterprises
completely separate such wastes from noncombustible waste and ashes.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.04  WASTE CONTAINERS.
   Garbage or materials that have food particles adhering thereto, whether
mixed with other materials or not, shall be stored in watertight, tightly
covered metal, plastic or other approved containers fitted with adequate
lifting handles or bails. The cover shall also be equipped with a lifting
handle and fit snugly over the can to prevent rain water and vermin from
entering and to prevent the cover from being dislodged by high winds or
animals. Such container must have a capacity of not more than 21 gallons, and
weigh not more than 75 pounds when full. All waste materials other than garbage
or materials with food particles adhering thereto shall be stored in containers
equipped with two lifting handles on the sides or a bail handle and which have
a capacity of not more than 21 gallons and weigh not more than 75 pounds when
full.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.05  NONACCEPTABLE WASTE CONTAINERS.
   The following types of containers are not acceptable:
   (a)   Cardboard boxes or drums;
   (b)   Paper, canvas or burlap bags;
   (c)   Any container with a capacity of over 21 gallons or weighing more than
75 pounds when full, or not equipped with two lifting handles on the sides or a
bail handle;
   (d)   Any container which has rough or sharp edges or other defects which
render it dangerous to handle; and
   (e)   Any dilapidated container.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.06  CONFISCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   The Mayor, or his or her authorized agent, is authorized to seize and
destroy any container which is nonacceptable as defined in §
939.05, provided that written or printed notice is fastened to or pasted on
such container giving notice that such container is dangerous or unsuitable for
use and must be replaced or satisfactorily repaired prior to the next
collection of waste material following the attaching of such written or printed
notice.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.07  SETTING OUT CONTAINERS.
   Containers must be placed for collection in a convenient location on the
property, on the ground level and outside of any building. City employees are
not permitted to enter any building, garage or storage shed in making
collections, nor are they permitted to carry containers up or down any stairs
or to operate ash hoists. The location for waste containers, chosen by the
householder or other representative on the premises, shall be in plain sight
where municipal waste collection crews can reach the containers without undue
effort or hazard. All waste containers must be placed together. Walks and
entrances to points of waste storage must be kept clean of ice, snow and other
obstructions. Vicious animals or animals which annoy, harass or threaten the
collectors must be confined.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.08  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROVIDING CONTAINERS.
   In every multiple dwelling the owner, operator or his or her agent shall be
responsible for providing and maintaining suitable approved containers for the
disposal of waste materials. In a dwelling structure other than a multiple
dwelling, the occupant of each dwelling unit shall provide himself or herself
with suitable approved containers. A MULTIPLE DWELLING is a building containing
three or more dwelling units, or two or more dwelling units above the first or
ground floor, or one or more dwelling units if the building contains a use
other than a dwelling use.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.09  GARBAGE TO BE DRY AND WRAPPED.
   Garbage shall be well drained and free of water and liquids. Garbage from
residential sources must be wrapped in several thicknesses of paper or other
satisfactory material; garbage from nonresidential sources need not be wrapped.
Undrained or unwrapped garbage from residential sources or undrained garbage
from nonresidential sources will not be collected and is hereby declared to be
a nuisance when placed on public or private property, whether or not in
containers. The Mayor or his or her authorized representative shall be the sole
judge as to whether garbage has been sufficiently drained to comply with this
section. Small dead birds and animals, such as rats and mice, shall be wrapped
and placed in the container with garbage.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.10  GARBAGE TO BE PLACED IN CONTAINERS PROMPTLY.
   No garbage shall be allowed to remain exposed in any building or on any
premises for a longer time than shall be reasonably necessary to remove and
deposit the same in proper waste containers. All containers used for garbage
shall be kept clean and disinfected.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.11  LOOSE MATERIALS.
   Loose materials such as small tree branches, large boxes or cartons, hedge
clippings and other material which are too large to be placed in a container,
must be tied in bundles not more than four feet in length and two feet in
diameter and must weigh not more than 75 pounds. These bundles must be placed
near the waste containers.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.12  BULKY ARTICLES.
   Bulky articles such as hot water tanks, mattresses, furniture, stoves, bed
springs and other similar refuse from homes will be collected upon the regular
day of collection. However, the city shall not collect any article weighing
over 150 pounds.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.13  DEPOSITING GARBAGE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage or dead animals in any
street or other public place, or on any public or private property, nor permit
such waste to remain upon property owned, leased, rented or controlled by him
or her, except in approved containers. No person shall remove the lid from any
garbage container without replacing same. Any such act is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.14  DEPOSITING OTHER WASTE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall thrown, place or deposit any waste, ashes, building or
construction waste, ordinary or extraordinary commercial waste, or industrial
waste as herein defined in any street or other public place nor on any public
or private property, nor permit such waste to remain upon property owned,
leased, rented or controlled by him or her, except in approved containers or
pursuant to a permit issued by the Mayor. Any such act, unless so approved by
the Mayor, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Upon application, the Mayor may
issue a permit subject to such terms and conditions as he or she may determine
for the disposal of earth, clean ashes or other material not deemed a nuisance
upon property owned or controlled by the applicant.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.15  ACCUMULATIONS A NUISANCE.
   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse or any
other noxious or offensive materials or substances to collect or remain in any
place, whether or not in approved containers, for such period of time as to
create a nuisance or become a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 5661, passed 8-24-1965)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.16  UPSETTING WASTE CONTAINERS.
   No person shall turn over or upset contents of any waste container on any
street, sidewalk or other public place.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.17  STREET WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste receptacles of the city placed on the sidewalks and city streets shall
be used only for disposal of such waste as herein defined, as persons may have
for disposal while passing along the streets. Use of such receptacles for the
disposal of garbage or dead animals is prohibited. Use of such receptacles for
the disposal of waste accumulated in residences or places of business is
prohibited.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.18  ORIGIN OF WASTE MATERIAL.
   Only waste material which originates and is produced within the corporate
limits of the city is acceptable for collection and/or disposal by the city.
Except as herein provided, any person who disposes of, attempts to dispose of
or presents for collection waste material in the city which originates and is
produced outside the corporate limits of the city is subject to the penalties
provided for violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.19  PRIVATE COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL; FEE.
   (a)   The Mayor may authorize the collection, transportation and/or disposal
by private parties, firms or corporations of waste which originates within the
corporate limits of the city but which is not collected by the city. Such
private parties, firms or corporations must obtain a refuse collection and
disposal license at City Hall, and agree to be bound by the terms of the
license. Such private parties, firms or corporations must agree to the
following terms and conditions: “In consideration of the foregoing license and
the privileges herein specified, the undersigned shall as a condition
precedent, release the city from any right of action, claim or demand which may
accrue to it, him or her by reason of the loss of any of its, his or her
property while in, upon or about the refuse disposal facilities, and further
agrees for such consideration to indemnify said city and save it harmless from
all claims, demands, damages, actions, costs and charges to which the city may
be subject or which it may have to pay by reason of any injury to any person or
property, or loss of life or property suffered or sustained by any agent or
employee of the undersigned while in, upon or about any part of the refuse
disposal facilities, whether such loss arises from the negligence of the
officials, employees, agents or servants of the city or otherwise; provided
further that the undersigned assumes liability for any and all damage and
injury that may occur to property of the city; property and person of employees
of said city; property and person of contractors of the city; and property and
person of employees of contractors of said city, resulting from the use of said
refuse disposal facilities.”
   (b)   Such license shall be issued for such period of time as the Mayor may
determine and may be revoked by the Mayor at any time.
(Ord. 6178, passed 10-20-1970)
§ 939.20  PRIVATE SCAVENGING.
   Except as otherwise provided by ordinances licensing junk dealers, private
scavenging or salvaging refuse material, including the buying, collecting or
gathering of rags, junk, waste paper or other waste material, is prohibited
within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be unlawful and a violation
of the provisions of this chapter for any person, whether or not licensed as a
junk dealer, to engage in scavenging or salvaging refuse material or waste set
out by householders for collection by the city or brought to the curbline by
city collectors in the process of making the collection, whether such refuse
material or waste is in containers or not.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.21  PRIVATE INCINERATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the private incineration of
combustible waste and garbage in a home or commercial establishment, if the
operation produces no smoke or odors that may be classed as nuisances or
hazards. Such incinerations must be efficiently conducted so that garbage and
all other combustible waste thus disposed of will be substantially consumed. If
such garbage is not completely reduced to ashes, any residue must be stored in
containers as if it were garbage.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.22  GARBAGE OR WASTE IN SEWER SYSTEM.
   The grinding of food wastes into water-carried pulp which is then
transported by flushing to the household or commercial plumbing system and
thence into the sanitary or combined sewer system is permissible. This process
may be applied to the disposal of fresh food waste as produced in homes or
commercial establishments prior to its storage in any garbage can for
collection. Such waste must be properly ground or macerated and discharged with
sufficient volume of water so that it will not cause stoppage of the sewer
system. The throwing or placing of garbage, dead animals or waste in any
manhole, catch basin, inlet, stream, pond or creek is prohibited.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.23  PRIVATE VEHICLES FOR GARBAGE, MANURE AND THE LIKE.
   No garbage, manure, dead animals not to be used for human food,
slaughterhouse offal, soap, grease or other putrescible waste or commercial by-
product or any substance that is foul, putrid, offensive or dangerous or that
is detrimental to public health shall be transported in or through the city
unless the portion of the vehicle carrying such substance is completely closed
or equipped with a tightly fitting cover. No such vehicle shall be kept open
longer than absolutely necessary to receive the substances to be transported
therein nor remain stationary for more than five minutes in any one place in
any street or alley. The portion of such vehicle carrying such substances shall
be watertight and so loaded and constructed that no part of the contents may
fall, spill or leak therefrom.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.24  VEHICLES WITH OFFENSIVE LOADS.
   No person owning or having possession, charge or control of any car or
vehicle having in or upon it any substance that is foul, putrid, offensive or
dangerous or that is detrimental to public health, shall allow such car or
vehicle to remain within the city limits longer than the time necessary for the
completion of its loading.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.25  VEHICLES; STORAGE AND CLEANING.
   No owner or person in possession or control of a vehicle used for carrying
or transferring any of the substances enumerated in §
939.23 hereof shall permit such vehicle to stand, be stored or kept in such
manner or for such length of time, that it will be or constitute a nuisance.
The owner or person in possession or control of any such vehicle shall cause it
to be cleaned at least once a week while in use and to be kept clean while not
in use.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.26  HAULERS TO AVOID SPILLAGE.
   No waste shall be transported in or through the city in such a manner as to
permit any part of such substance to blow, fall, spill or leak upon any street
or alley, or upon public or private property.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.27  REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be collected by the Division of Service upon request.
(Ord. 5455, passed 2-26-1963)
§ 939.28  AUTHORITY OF MAYOR; APPEALS; PENALTY; WAIVER.
   (a)   Adoption of rules. The Mayor is hereby authorized to adopt and to
promulgate written rules and regulations governing the collection of waste
materials from residential properties in the city as deemed necessary to
provide clean, efficient and safe waste collection, provided such rules and
regulations, prior to adoption and promulgation, have been submitted to Council
or to an appropriate committee thereof for approval; and no such rules or
regulations shall be adopted or promulgated without such approval.
   (b)   Rule limitations. No rule or regulation adopted or promulgated
hereunder shall conflict with or waive any other city ordinance, nor conflict
with the Charter.
   (c)   Application. Such rules and regulations, upon approval by Council or
by appropriate committee thereof, shall have the force and effect of an
ordinance and shall continue in effect until revoked or modified by the Mayor
with the approval of Council or until revoked or modified by action of Council.
   (d)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Mayor, or his or
her authorized representative, made in the enforcement of any rules and
regulations adopted or promulgated hereunder shall have the right to appeal to
the Board of Zoning Appeals from such decision within ten days from the date of
any decision, order or directive issued by the Mayor or by his or her
authorized representative.
      (2)   Such appeal shall be perfected by filing a written notice of appeal
with the Mayor or with the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the Mayor or Board of
Zoning Appeals shall give written notice by mail of the date, place and time of
the hearing to the appellant. Such hearing on appeal before the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be heard within a reasonable time after notice of appeal has been
received by the Mayor or Board of Zoning Appeals. The appeals shall be heard by
a Board composed of the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals, which Board
shall have the power after such hearing to confirm the decision, order or
directive of the Mayor. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall also have the power
to approve, amend, modify or reverse the decision of the Mayor or to otherwise
act on the appeal as provided in Chapter 1107 of the Planning and Zoning Code.
      (3)   The Mayor shall transmit any and all notices of appeals to the
Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals who shall schedule or docket same for
hearing within a reasonable time thereafter, and either the Mayor or the
Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall orally and/or in writing, or
both, whichever will communicate effective notice to the appellant, that his or
her appeal has been received by the Mayor and/or Board of Zoning Appeals, and
will be scheduled at a time certain for hearing. Thereafter the Mayor or the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall give written notice by ordinary United States
mail to the appellant of the date, time and place of the hearing on appeal.
      (4)   Appeals shall be taken hereunder as otherwise provided in the
codified ordinances from orders, decisions or rulings of the Board of Zoning
Appeals to Council.
   (e)   Penalty; waiver.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the penalty provided in §
939.99, whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted or promulgated under
authority of this section may execute and file with the Clerk of the Municipal
Court an instrument waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit or complaint
and warrant, together with the reading of such affidavit or complaint and the
right to be present personally at the trial of such action, and further waiving
the right of appeal in error, and authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered
and the defendant submitted to the mercy of the Court.
      (2)   Upon depositing with such Clerk $25 within seven days of the date
of the citation for a first offense or upon depositing $50 within seven days of
the date of the citation for a second or subsequent offense within a 12-month
period, such person may be fined the aforesaid amounts by the Court. After
seven days from the date of the citation or where an affidavit or complaint and
warrant have been issued charging a person with violating any provision of the
approved rules and regulations adopted or promulgated under authority of this
section, such person shall be subject to the penalty contained in §
939.99.
(Ord. 7692, passed 12-20-1983)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.29  DISPOSAL OF WASTE RESTRICTED.
   (a)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, TRAILER, TRUCK  and
VEHICLE , shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
Chapter 301 of the codified ordinances.
   (b)   No person shall dump or otherwise dispose of solid waste or industrial
waste as defined in this chapter of the codified ordinances by commercial
trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or truck on any public or private property
not licensed as a solid waste disposal facility. Any owner of a commercial
trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or truck who permits or employs another
person to use the vehicle and who knows or should have known through due
diligence that the vehicle will be used for the purpose described in this
section is guilty of a violation of this section.
   (c)   No person shall dump or otherwise dispose of solid waste or industrial
waste by any vehicle other than a commercial trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer
or truck on any public or private property or place not licensed as a solid
waste disposal facility. Any owner of a vehicle who permits or employs another
person to use the vehicle and who knows or should have known through due
diligence that the vehicle will be used for the purpose described in this
section is guilty of a violation of this section.
   (d)   Council determines that solid waste and industrial waste dumped or
otherwise deposited on public or private property not licensed as a solid waste
disposal facility, constitutes a public nuisance which must be abated. For this
reason, any expense or costs incurred in removing waste dumped or deposited in
violation of this section shall be paid by the violator. The Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to send written notice to violators of divisions
(b) and (c) above to remove waste dumped or deposited in violation of this
section within five days of receipt of the notice. If the violator fails to
remove the waste within the time provided in the notice, the Service Director
may remove the waste and the Director of Law may take any action necessary to
collect the cost of the removal from the violator.
(Ord. 56-97, passed 7-15-1997)  Penalty, see §
939.99
§ 939.30  REFUSE COLLECTION FOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   (a)   The city will provide refuse collection services only to properties
having three or fewer residential units, as determined by the city’s Building
Department records or other city records.
   (b)   Commencing on the earliest date permitted by law following the passage
of this section, the city will charge all owners of property receiving refuse
collection services from the city according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Fourteen dollars per month for each residential unit, as determined
according to city Building Department records or other city records, for
properties having three units or less, with an annual increase of $1 per year
over the next five years beginning on August 1, 2013 and increasing on each
subsequent August 1 of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the final increase
effective August 1, 2017. There shall be no assessments for unoccupied housing
units. Although the housing units may be unoccupied, owners of such housing
units are responsible for keeping their properties free of trash and in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition pursuant to §
1377.01. Owners of unoccupied housing units shall notify the city’s Building
Department when the units become unoccupied. Owners who fail to notify the
city’s Building Department when a previously vacant unoccupied housing unit
becomes occupied will be subject to a fine of two months’ additional
assessment.
      (2)   Ten dollars and fifty cents per month for each single-family
dwelling occupied by an owner qualifying for a homestead exemption as defined
by the County Auditor, with an annual increase of $0.75 per year over the next
five years beginning on August 1, 2013 and increasing on each subsequent August
1 of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the final increase effective August 1,
2017.
      (3)   Fifty dollars for the second and each additional “hopper load” of
refuse, in addition to the normal monthly fee fixed above, for abnormally large
amounts of refuse, including, but not limited to, refuse resulting from move
outs or eviction set outs.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 939.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than six months or both.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
939.29(b) shall be fined $1,000 and shall be imprisoned for six months.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of §
939.29(c) shall be fined not less than $500 and not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of these codified ordinances,
no part of a penalty imposed under this section shall in any case be suspended
or otherwise reduced.
(Ord. 56-97, passed 7-15-1997)
CHAPTER 941:  CIVIC CENTER
Section
941.01   Fee established
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
509.03
   Vandalism, see §
541.09
§ 941.01  FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   Pass programs.
      (1)   Annual fitness center/open gym membership pass (annual MLK
membership passes).
         A.   Residents. Any youth, teen, adult or senior that resides in the
city shall pay an annual fee for an MLK Civic Center annual membership card
which provides for access to both open gym sessions and fitness center
activities at no additional charge throughout the year. Purchasers may pay in
installments if unable to pay in full in advance, all as according to the fee
schedule set forth below.
 
Resident Membership Rates                   Yearly Monthly Payment Plan Amount
Adult                                       $180   $15
College student (with proper identification $96    $8
of enrollment)
Family (same household)                     $240   $25
Senior (ages 65 and up)                     $24    $2
Two person                                  $180   $20
Youth (up through age 19)                   $60    $5
 
         B.   Nonresidents. Any youth, teen, adult or senior that is not a
resident of the city shall pay an annual fee for an MLK Civic Center annual
membership card which provides for access to both open gym sessions and fitness
center activities at no additional charge throughout the year. Purchasers may
pay in installments if unable to pay in full in advance, all as according to
the fee schedule set forth below.
 
Nonresident Membership Rates                Yearly Monthly Payment Plan Amount
Adult                                       $240   $20
College student (with proper identification $120   $10
of enrollment)
Family (same household)                     $360   $30
Senior (Age 65 and up)                      $60    $5
Two person                                  $300   $25
Youth (up through age 19)                   $120   $10
 
         C.   Additional fees, discounts. A one-time application fee of $5 is
due upon initial membership application. There will be no application fees for
renewals. Annual memberships for which payment in full is made in advance will
receive a $20 discount.
      (2)   Daily guest passes for open gym sessions and fitness center
activities. Daily guest punch card passes are available for individuals and
groups who wish to use the facilities on a trial basis prior to committing to
an annual membership as follows.
 
Individual Rates
Visit Frequency         Fee
Single visit punch card $2
Five visit punch card   $10
Ten visit punch card    $20
 
 
Group Daily Rates
Groups of 10 to 25   $3 per person
Groups of 26 or more $2 per person
 
      (3)   Annual boxing membership pass.
         A.   Annual boxing memberships are required for participation in the
boxing program for residents and nonresidents as set forth below. Holders of
annual MLK membership passes may purchase a boxing membership pass at a reduced
rate.
 Yearly Monthly Payment Plan Amount
                          Yearly Monthly Payment Plan Amount
Resident Membership Rates
Youth (age 8 through 19)  Free   Free through youth services program
Age 20 and older:         $180   $15
With annual membership           
Without annual membership $360   $30
Nonresident Membership Rates
Youth (age 8 through 12)  $60    $5
Youth (age 13 through 19) $120   $10
Age 20 and older:         $180   $15
With annual membership           
Without annual membership $360   $30
 
         B.   Daily boxing passes may be purchased by both residents and
nonresidents as follows.
 
Age Group         Rate
Age 8 through 12  $2
Age 13 through 19 $3
Age 20 and over   $5
 
      (4)   Monthly open gym pass.
         A.   Residents and nonresidents who desire access to open gym sessions
only may participate on a monthly basis for the fees listed below.
 
Resident Membership Rates Monthly Payment Amount
Youth (ages 8 through 19) Free through youth services program
Ages 20 and older         $30
 
 
Nonresident Membership Rates Monthly Payment Amount
Youth (ages 8 through 12)    $5
Youth (ages 13 through 19)   $10
Ages 20 and older            $35
 
         B.   Daily open gym passes may be purchased for both residents and
nonresidents as follows.
 
Age Group         Rate
Age 8 through 12  $2
Age 13 through 19 $3
Age 20 and over   $5
 
   (b)   MLK Civic Center facility rental rates.
      (1)   Meeting rooms. Meeting rooms may be rented by residents and
nonresidents for the fees set forth below. A $50 deposit must be submitted with
the application for facility use. The deposit will be returned only if the
meeting room(s) is surrendered in the same condition and cleanliness as when
rented.
 
                                Resident Nonresident
Meeting rooms (every two hours) $45      $55
 
      (2)   Gymnasium rentals. The gymnasium may be rented by individual
residents and nonresidents as well as nonprofit and for-profit organizations
for the fees set forth below. A $50 deposit is required for individual rentals
of two hours or less. A $100 deposit is required in all other cases. The
deposit must be submitted with the application for facility use. The deposit
will be returned only if the gymnasium is surrendered in the same condition and
cleanliness as when rented. Some events may require liability insurance.
 
Individual Rates      Resident Nonresident
Gymnasium (hourly)    $50      $83.33
Gymnasium (six hours) $300     $500
 
 
Organization Rates Nonprofit For-Profit
Gymnasium          $300      $500
 
      (3)   Sports party package. The sports party package is a two-hour
package consisting of a one-hour meeting room rental plus a one-hour basketball
court rental. Some events may require liability insurance.
 
                     Resident Nonresident
Sports party package $65      $85
 
      (4)   Alcohol on premises. Any person scheduling an event at which
alcohol will be served shall be required to have a member of the city’s
Department of Police present and acting as security for such event pursuant to
an arrangement made directly with the city’s Department of Police. Liability
insurance may be required.
(Ord. 43-10, passed 9-8-2010)
CHAPTER 945:  HELEN S. BROWN SENIOR CITIZEN CENTER
Section
945.01   Fee established
§ 945.01  FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The following fees are hereby established for the use of areas of the Helen
S. Brown Senior Citizen Center.
 
Rental/Service                            Six Hours
Community events (dining area only)       $200
Dining room                               $450
Kitchen (heating in convection oven only) $225
Security (auxiliary officer)              $16.50/hour
 
(Ord. 24-05, passed 3-2-2005)
PART 11:  PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
         Title
            
1.   ZONING ADMINISTRATION
            
3.   DISTRICT USE, HEIGHT, AREA AND BUILDING LINE REGULATIONS
TITLE 1:  ZONING ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
1101   Definitions
         
1103   Purpose, Scope, Effect and Validity
         
1105   Enforcement, Permits and Penalty
         
1107   Board of Zoning Appeals
         
1109   Changes and Amendments
CHAPTER 1101:  DEFINITIONS
Section
1101.01   Application
1101.02   Interpretation of certain words
1101.03   Accessory use or building
1101.04   Aged or infirm person
1101.05   Apartment house
1101.06   Court
1101.07   Double house
1101.08   Drive-in restaurant
1101.09   Dwelling (single-family, two-family and unit)
1101.10   Employees, number of
1101.11   Family
1101.12   Floor area, gross
1101.13   Grade (established, finished and natural)
1101.14   Height of a building
1101.15   Hotel
1101.16   Least yard dimension
1101.17   Lot
1101.18   Major repairs, substantial alterations, extensions
1101.19   Metal building
1101.20   Night club
1101.21   Nonconforming
1101.22   Nonmasonry building
1101.23   Off-street loading space
1101.24   Off-street parking space, aisle, area
1101.25   Private swimming pool
1101.26   Roomer
1101.27   Rooming house
1101.28   Seats
1101.29   Setback
1101.30   Street line
1101.31   Structure
1101.32   Swimming pool
1101.33   Tenant
1101.34   Yard (front, rear and side)
1101.35   Zoning ordinance
1101.36   Shared housing facility
§ 1101.01  APPLICATION.
   Certain words in this zoning ordinance are defined for the purposes hereof
as follows.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.02  INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN WORDS.
   Words in the present tense include the future. The singular number includes
the plural and the plural includes the singular.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.03  ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING . A use or building customarily incident to and
located on the same lot with another use or building.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.04  AGED OR INFIRM PERSON.
   AGED PERSON.  A person who has attained the age of 65 years or more.
   INFIRM PERSON. A person, who, by reason of his or her age or through a
physical or mental defect or for any other reason, is unable to perform the
necessary act or acts usually performed by a normal person in full possession
of his or her mental or physical faculties, or one who by reason of physical or
mental defects or ailments is unable to perform such act or acts as may be
necessary for the preservation of his or her life or person in an emergency.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.05  APARTMENT HOUSE.
   APARTMENT HOUSE . A building containing three or more dwelling units, or two
or more dwelling units above the first or ground floor, or one or more dwelling
units if the building contains a use other than a dwelling use. For the purpose
of applying this definition, any building which is being operated as a rooming
house pursuant to a valid city license shall not be classed as an APARTMENT
HOUSE.  The words MULTIPLE DWELLING, TENEMENT HOUSE  and APARTMENT HOUSE  are
synonymous.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.06  COURT.
   COURT. An unoccupied space, open to the sky, bounded on two or more sides by
the walls of the building. An inner court is a COURT entirely within the
exterior walls of a building. All other courts are outer courts.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.07  DOUBLE HOUSE.
   DOUBLE HOUSE. A detached dwelling arranged, intended or designed to be
occupied by only two families living side by side with a party wall between.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.08  DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.  A lunch room, restaurant or a place for the sale and
consumption of soft drinks, juices, ice cream, food and beverages of all kinds
where any or all of the customers are served in automobiles parked on the
street or on the premises.
(Ord. 4906, passed 12-27-1955)
§ 1101.09  DWELLING (SINGLE-FAMILY, TWO-FAMILY AND UNIT).
   DWELLING. A building intended or designed to be occupied by not more than
two families living separately and independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms arranged, maintained or designed to be
occupied by a single family and shall consist of a complete bathroom with
toilet, lavatory and tub or shower facilities; one, and only one, complete
kitchen or kitchenette with approved cooking, refrigeration and sink
facilities, and approved living and sleeping facilities, all of which are used
exclusively by such family and by any authorized persons occupying such
dwelling unit with the family. Where the required facilities for a dwelling
unit are not contiguous, the Building Inspector shall determine whether such
facilities constitute a DWELLING UNIT. The words DWELLING UNIT, APARTMENT and
SUITE shall be considered synonymous.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A detached dwelling arranged, intended or designed
to be occupied by only one family.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.  A detached dwelling arranged, intended or designed to
be occupied by only two families, one of which has its principal living rooms
on the first floor and the other on the second floor.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.10  EMPLOYEES, NUMBER OF.
   EMPLOYEES  or NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.  The greatest number of persons employed
in a building at any time of the day or night during any season of the year.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.11  FAMILY.
   FAMILY. One individual or a number of individuals related by blood, adoption
or marriage to the head of the household or to the spouse of the head of the
household living, sleeping, cooking and eating together as a single
housekeeping unit in a single dwelling unit, except that a family may include
not more than two additional persons not related within the scope of the
foregoing definition of FAMILY, whether or not otherwise related to the head of
the household or to the spouse of the head of the household, provided that:
   (a)   Such “additional” persons shall be at least 18 years of age; or
   (b)   If such “additional” persons are less than 18 years of age, such
person must be:
      (1)   Foster children placed with the head of the household, or with the
spouse of the head of the household. FOSTER CHILD means a person under 18 years
of age who is placed in a dwelling unit by an institution or agency, licensed
or approved by an appropriate state-regulating agency to place foster children;
      (2)   Children for whom a FAMILY member has been appointed legal guardian
by a court of competent jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Not more than one “additional” person under 18 years of age who is
the child or ward of an “additional” person over 18 years of age. In order for
a person under 18 years of age to be considered the ward of another, such other
person must have been appointed legal guardian by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   The HEAD OF THE HOUSEHOLD shall be that person who customarily furnishes the
greatest percentage of financial support to the maintenance of the family.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this definition, no family unit shall exceed
in total number those persons permitted under the applicable provisions of the
Housing Code describing required habitable floor and bedroom areas for each
occupant.
(Ord. 24-91, passed 3-5-1991)
§ 1101.12  FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
   FLOOR AREA  or GROSS FLOOR AREA.  The gross floor area used or intended to
be used for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or patients,
including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise. It shall not include floors or parts of floors used principally
for nonpublic purposes, such as storage, incidental repairs, processing or
packaging of merchandise, show windows or offices incidental to the management
or maintenance of stores or buildings. It shall not include floors or parts of
floors used principally for toilet or rest rooms, fitting rooms, dressing rooms
and alteration rooms.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.13  GRADE (ESTABLISHED, FINISHED AND NATURAL).
   ESTABLISHED GRADE.  The elevation of the centerline of the street as fixed
by the city.
   FINISHED GRADE.  The average of the finished ground level at the center of
all outside walls of a building.
   NATURAL GRADE.  The elevation of the undisturbed natural surface of the
ground adjoining the building.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.14  HEIGHT OF A BUILDING.
   HEIGHT OF A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  The vertical distance measured from the
finished grade at the centerline of its principal front to the level of the
highest point of the building, including appurtenances.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.15  HOTEL.
   HOTEL. A building originally designed for hotel purposes and meeting all
requirements of state and city laws, rules and regulations, in which all or a
part thereof is occupied, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the
public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests and in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of such guests. For the purposes of this zoning ordinance, the word HOTEL
includes motels and motor courts meeting these requirements.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.16  LEAST YARD DIMENSION.
   LEAST YARD DIMENSION.  The least of the horizontal dimensions of such yard.
If two opposite sides of a yard are not parallel, the horizontal dimensions
between them shall be deemed to be the mean distance between them.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.17  LOT.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied by one main building and the accessory
buildings or uses customarily incident to it, including such open spaces as are
required by this zoning ordinance and such open spaces as are arranged and
designed to be used in connection with such building. The word LOT includes the
word PLOT .
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.18  MAJOR REPAIRS, SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATIONS, EXTENSIONS.
   MAJOR REPAIRS, SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATIONS OR EXTENSIONS.  Construction
activities exceeding in aggregate cost 20% of the assessed value of the
building or structure.
(Ord. 4900, passed 12-13-1955)
§ 1101.19  METAL BUILDING.
   METAL BUILDING.  A building of which the walls or parts thereof or roof
consist of metal.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.20  NIGHTCLUB.
   NIGHT CLUB.  A place habitually operated for profit after the hour of
midnight, where food is served for consumption on the premises and one or more
forms of amusement are provided or permitted for a consideration which may be
in the form of a cover charge or may be included in the price of the food and
beverages, or both, purchased by the patrons thereof.
(Ord. 5164, passed 1-27-1959)
§ 1101.21  NONCONFORMING.
   NONCONFORMING USE, HEIGHT, AREA, BUILDING SETBACK, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
One that does not conform with the regulations of this zoning ordinance and
which lawfully existed at the time this zoning ordinance became effective.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.22  NONMASONRY BUILDING.
   NONMASONRY BUILDING.  A building having exterior wall construction or
exterior covering of materials other than masonry or concrete.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.23  OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.  A space not less than ten feet in width, 14 feet
in height and 45 feet in length, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering
space for the standing, loading and unloading of vehicles.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.24  OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE, AISLE, AREA.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE OR STALL.  An area for the parking of an
automobile, exclusive of adequate access drives or adequate aisles.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AISLE.  A lane, not within the limits of a dedicated
street, designed to provide vehicle access to parking stalls.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA.  Includes parking spaces or stalls, aisles, access
drives and any other space, not within the limits of a dedicated street, needed
for a parking operation.
(Ord. 5185, passed 6-30-1959)
§ 1101.25  PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL.  A swimming pool maintained by an individual
primarily for the sole use of his or her household and guests. A PRIVATE
SWIMMING POOL.  shall not include swimming pools operated for the purpose of
profit or in connection with any business operated for profit; pools for the
use of members and their guests of a nonprofit club or organization; pools used
by house residents of a two-family residence, multiple dwelling unit, apartment
district, block, subdivision, neighborhood, community or other specified area
of residence, nor pools where the owner or any member of his or her household
accepts money or other things of value from neighbors, guests or other users of
the pool to assist in defraying the cost of construction, maintenance or
operations of such pool.
(Ord. 5094, passed 3-11-1958)
§ 1101.26  ROOMER.
   ROOMER. A person, other than a member of the family of a resident owner or
of the family of a tenant, who rents one or more rooms, not constituting a
complete dwelling unit, as a habitation in a dwelling or apartment house from
such owner or tenant, except that all persons who occupy a dwelling unit on the
third floor or any building originally constituting a dwelling shall be classed
as roomers.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.27  ROOMING HOUSE.
   ROOMING HOUSE.
   (a)   Any building or part of any building, other than a hotel, occupied in
such a manner that certain rooms are leased or rented to a roomer or roomers,
as herein defined, by an owner or tenant under the following conditions:
      (1)   A building in which rooms are rented to one or more roomers by an
owner or tenant who does not reside in the building;
      (2)   A single-family dwelling in which rooms are rented to three or more
roomers by a resident owner or tenant;
      (3)   A dwelling in which rooms are rented to one or more roomers on the
third floor;
      (4)   A building containing more than one dwelling unit in which rooms
are rented to two or more roomers by an owner or tenant occupying one of such
dwelling units; or
      (5)   A building in which a room or rooms are rented to be occupied by
one or more roomers who are under 12 years of age or are infirm or aged.
   (b)   For the purposes of this zoning ordinance, the words ROOMING HOUSE
include motels, motor courts, lodging houses and tourist homes not meeting the
requirements of a hotel.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.28  SEATS.
   SEATS. The seating capacity of a particular building or structure as
determined by the plans filed with the Building Inspectors. Where individual
seats are not provided, each 20 inches of benches or similar seating
accommodations shall be considered as one SEAT.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.29  SETBACK.
   SETBACK. The distance from the street line to the building line or to a
building, measured perpendicular to the street line. The SETBACK of a building
shall be measured to the major exterior wall or part thereof which is nearest
the street line.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.30  STREET LINE.
   STREET LINE.  The side line of a dedicated street and is the dividing line
between the public thoroughfare and private lots.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.31  STRUCTURE.
   STRUCTURE. Includes signs, marquees, barber poles, fences, walls and other
human-made objects erected upon the ground or attached to a building and which
are not essential parts of a building.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.32  SWIMMING POOL.
   SWIMMING POOL . A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having
a depth at any point of more than two feet, used or intended to be used for
swimming by adults or children or both adults and children, and including all
appurtenant equipment, constructed, installed and maintained in or above the
ground inside or outside of a building.
(Ord. 5094, passed 3-11-1958)
§ 1101.33  TENANT.
   TENANT. The lessee or renter of a building or a portion of a building.
(Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
§ 1101.34  YARD (FRONT, REAR AND SIDE).
   YARD. The space, other than a court, unobstructed from the ground to the sky
on the lot on which a building is situated.
      FRONT YARD.  The space on the same lot with a building between the front
line of the building and the front line of the lot.
      REAR YARD.  The space on the same lot with a building between the rear
line of the building and the rear line of the lot.
      SIDE YARD. The space on the same lot with a building situated between the
building and the side line of the lot and extending through from the street or
from the front yard to the rear yard or to the rear line of the lot. Any lot
line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.35  ZONING ORDINANCE.
   ZONING ORDINANCE.  Ordinance 4761, passed November 17, 1953, as amended,
which comprises Titles One and Three of this Part Eleven - Planning and Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1101.36  SHARED HOUSING FACILITY.
   SHARED HOUSING FACILITY.
      (1)   Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for sole, bona fide and permanent residential purpose as a
certified or licensed adult care facility or residential facility as further
defined below.
         A.   ADULT FAMILY HOME.  A facility that is licensed by the state’s
Department of Health to provide accommodations for not more than five adults
and to provide personal care services to these resident adults (typically
elderly). Such services may include assistance in daily living activities and
self-administration of medicine and preparation of special diets.
         B.   ADULT GROUP HOME.  A facility that is licensed by the state’s
Department of Health to provide accommodations for six to not more than 16
adults and to provide personal care services to these resident adults
(typically elderly). Such services may include assistance in daily living
activities and self-administration of medicine, and preparation of special
diets.
         C.   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FAMILY HOUSE.  A facility licensed by the
state’s Department of Mental Health to provide accommodations for not more than
eight mentally retarded or developmentally disabled persons and to provide
personal care, supervision, habilitation services and mental health services in
a family setting.
         D.   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY GROUP HOME.  A facility licensed by the
state’s Department of Mental Health to provided accommodations for nine to not
more than 16 mentally retarded or developmentally disabled persons and to
provide personal care, supervision, habilitation services and mental health
services in a family setting.
      (2)   The term SHARED HOUSING FACILITY  does not include halfway house,
quarterway house, three quarterway house or any other housing facility serving
as an alternative to incarceration, nursing home, rest home, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, residential treatment home/center, special care
home, or any other similar building or use of a building.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-2-2008)
CHAPTER 1103:  PURPOSE, SCOPE, EFFECT AND VALIDITY
Section
1103.01   Purpose
1103.02   Scope
1103.03   Council powers not limited; application to city property
1103.04   Continuation of authorized variances and U8 uses
1103.05   Repeal of prior ordinances
1103.06   Validity
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Planning Commission, see CHTR.
85-A;
Ch. 131
   Zoning and districting, see CHTR.
85-B
   Zoning applies to housing projects, see Ohio R.C. 3735.44
   Zoning ordinance defined, see §
1101.35
§ 1103.01  PURPOSE.
   The city is hereby districted or zoned to promote the public health, safety,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare, including the
promotion of home ownership, the protection of residence sections, the
prevention of congestion, the increasing of trade and industrial efficiency,
the conservation of property values, the assurance of adequate light and air
and the limitation, control and regulation of buildings in the city in
accordance with a well established plan of use, height, size and area for all
property and its development in the city.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1103.02  SCOPE.
   Districting or zoning includes provisions to regulate, restrict and specify
the locations of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings and other use
of property; the number of square feet of lot area per family; the size of
buildings or parts thereof; the location and size of side, front and rear yards
and the height of buildings; provides for the division of the city into use
districts, height districts and area districts; provides for the alignment or
setback of buildings and other structures; and provides maps showing such
districts and building or structure alignment or setback
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1103.03  COUNCIL POWERS NOT LIMITED; APPLICATION TO CITY PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be construed to limit Council in the
exercise of all of the powers to zone or re-district now or hereafter
authorized by the Constitution or statutes of the state, nor shall the
regulations and restrictions contained in this zoning ordinance in any manner
or form restrict or control the city in the construction, operation or use of
city property, buildings, structures or works in any restricted zone when such
operation or use shall be for municipal purposes.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1103.04  CONTINUATION OF AUTHORIZED VARIANCES AND U8 USES.
   (a)   All variances or variations from the use, height, area and building
line provisions of Ordinances 1575 and 1576, passed April 11, 1922, authorized
by action of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Board of Building Line Appeals or
Council since the effective date of such ordinances shall not be affected by
the provisions of this zoning ordinance and may continue under the conditions
specified at the time of their authorization.
   (b)   All Class U8 uses presently authorized by amendments to Ordinance 1575
shall continue as authorized conditional uses under the provisions of this
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1103.05  REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances 1575 and 1576, passed April 11, 1922, and all amendments thereto
and all ordinances or parts of ordinances pertaining to the subject matter
contained in this zoning ordinance and inconsistent therewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1103.06  VALIDITY.
   Sections and divisions of this zoning ordinance and the several parts and
provisions thereof are hereby declared to be independent sections, divisions,
parts and provisions, and the holding of any such section, division, part or
provision thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause
shall not affect nor render invalid any other such section, division, part or
provision thereof.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1105:  ENFORCEMENT, PERMITS AND PENALTY
Section
1105.01   Enforcement
1105.02   Conditional use permits
1105.03   Fee
1105.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses listed, see §
1123.03
   Referral; Commission action on conditional use permits, see §§
1107.03 and
1107.06
   Violation of zoning ordinances, see Ohio R.C. 713.13
§ 1105.01  ENFORCEMENT.
   This zoning ordinance shall be enforced by the Building Inspector or Deputy
Building Inspector, and wherever the term Building Inspector is used herein, it
includes the Deputy Building Inspector.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1105.02  CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   A permit for a conditional use in any use district may be granted upon
favorable action by the Board of Zoning Appeals and Council in the manner
hereinafter prescribed in Chapter 1107. Applications for conditional use
permits shall be submitted to the Board of Zoning Appeals in writing. Such
permit for a particular use in a specific location shall be granted only in
such cases and upon such conditions and restrictions as will assure that such
use is in harmony with the general intent of the zoning ordinance and will
secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the promotion of the
public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the
city. Unless the premises are utilized for the conditional use granted, or all
the structures or improvements contemplated in the conditional use permit are
substantially completed within a period of one year from the date of the
granting of the conditional use, such conditional use permit shall expire and
become void.
(Ord. 5150, passed 12-16-1958)
§ 1105.03  FEE.
   Applications to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a conditional use permit
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of $100 to be paid annually until
such conditional use terminates.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1105.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, or agent or officer of a corporation, who violates any of
the provisions of this zoning ordinance shall for each offense be fined not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
   (b)   Each day such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1107:  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
1107.01   Establishment; members; procedure
1107.02   Appeals to Board and Council
1107.03   Recommendations referred to Council
1107.04   Power to grant variances; fee
1107.05   Time restriction on appeals
1107.06   Action upon recommendations
Cross-reference:
   Appeals from zoning decisions, see Ohio R.C. 713.11
   Appeals relative to day care facilities, see §§
717.12 et seq.
   Board of Building Code Appeals, see
Ch. 1311
   Composition and duties, see CHTR.
85-B
   Council proposed amendments referred to Board, see §
1109.01
   Modification for repair or alteration of nonconforming use, see §
1139.03
   Power to regulate awnings, marquees, signs, see §
1137.04(d)
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 103
   Variances of height limitations, see §
1133.03
§ 1107.01  ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS; PROCEDURE.
   (a)   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established, which shall consist
of the Mayor, who shall act as Chairperson, the Director of Health, the Chief
of the Police Department and the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall serve
until their successors are appointed and qualified and a member of the Mayor’s
staff, other than the City Engineer, to be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of Council.
   (b)   The City Engineer shall act as Secretary. All meetings of the Board
shall be public. Public notice shall be given of hearings on any appeals from
the decisions of the Building Inspector, applications for conditional use
permits or proposed amendments, by the posting of a notice on the bulletin
board in the main entrance of the City Hall for a period of at least three
days, together with such additional notice, if any, that the Board shall deem
necessary. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings. The Board shall
adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to
carry into effect the provisions of this zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1107.02  APPEALS TO BOARD AND COUNCIL.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Building Inspector
or his or her authorized representative made in the enforcement of this zoning
ordinance shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals from
such decision within ten days from the date notice of such decision was given
or mailed to him or her, and to appear before the Board at a time and place
fixed by the Board. Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written
appeal with the Board within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of
the right of appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to
approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of such Building Inspector or
his or her authorized representative.
   (b)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision
within ten days from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to
the appellant, and to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by the
Council. Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with
Council within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of
appeal. Council shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 5637, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1107.03  RECOMMENDATIONS REFERRED TO COUNCIL.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may at the instance of any member thereof
conduct hearings for the purpose of considering necessary amendments to the
regulations and districts herein established. Any proposed amendment or
application for a conditional use permit shall be referred to Council with a
recommendation of the Board as to the action to be taken thereon.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1107.04  POWER TO GRANT VARIANCES; FEE.
   (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine all matters properly
presented to it and where practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships
shall result from the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the
provisions of the districting or zoning ordinance, the Board shall have the
power to grant variances in harmony with the general intent of the zoning
ordinance and to secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the
promotion of the public health, comfort, convenience and morals, safety and
general welfare of the city.
   (b)   Applications to the Board of Zoning Appeals for any variance from the
provisions of the zoning ordinance shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee
of $25 to be paid annually until such variance is terminated.
(Ord. 7678, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1107.05  TIME RESTRICTION ON APPEALS.
   A person or his or her successor in title shall have the right to appeal to
or file a request with the Board of Zoning Appeals or Council no more than once
in any six-month period concerning substantially the same premises and the same
subject matter. Similarly, the Board of Zoning Appeals or Council shall be
required to hear no more than one appeal or request within any six-month period
concerning substantially the same premises and the same subject matter.
(Ord. 5637, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1107.06  ACTION UPON RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Recommendations of the Board of Zoning Appeals on conditional use permits
shall be acted upon by Council only after public notice and hearing as
specified in this zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1109:  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
Section
1109.01   Procedure for amendments; hearing and notice
1109.02   Map changes by ordinance
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Council to amend, see CHTR.
85-B
   Notice and hearing by Board of Appeals on amendments, see §§
1107.01 and
1107.03
§ 1109.01  PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS; HEARING AND NOTICE.
   Council may from time to time amend, repeal or adopt any or all of the
provisions of the districting or zoning ordinance, but no amendment, repeal or
adoption shall be passed until Council shall have held a public hearing thereon
and shall have given at least five days’ notice of the time and place thereof
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. During such five
days the text or a copy of the text of such amendment, repeal or adoption,
together with the maps or plans or copies thereof forming part of or referred
to in such ordinance, measure or regulation, shall be on file with the Clerk of
Council for public examination, and a copy of the text of such amendment,
repeal or adoption shall be placed on the bulletin board in the main entrance
of the City Hall. Every amendment proposed by Council shall be referred to the
Board of Zoning Appeals for report.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1109.02  MAP CHANGES BY ORDINANCE.
   Changes in zones or districts shall be made by ordinances amending the
official maps under the conditions prescribed in this zoning ordinance for
amendments. Such changes shall be designated as map changes, and shall be
serially numbered for each map and shall be recorded thereon in a tabulation
showing the numbers of the changes and the date of passage.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
TITLE 3:  DISTRICT USE, HEIGHT, AREA AND BUILDING LINE REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
1121   Districts and Map Established; Compliance
         
1123   Permitted, Prohibited and Conditional Uses
         
1125   Residence District Regulations
         
1127   Local Retail Store District Regulations
         
1129   Commercial District Regulations
         
1131   Industrial District Regulations
         
1133   Height Districts
         
1135   Area Districts
         
1137   Building Line Districts
         
1139   Nonconforming Uses, Height, Areas or Setback
         
1141   Side and Rear Yards
         
1143   Off-Street Parking and Loading
         
1151   Sign Regulations
CHAPTER 1121:  DISTRICTS AND MAP ESTABLISHED; COMPLIANCE
Section
1121.01   Establishment of districts
1121.02   Establishment of zoning and districting maps
1121.03   Compliance with district regulations
Cross-reference:
   Amendments to map, see §
1109.02
   Basis of districts, see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Council to provide for districting or zoning, see CHTR.
85-B
   Map B2 District setback lines are minimum for Class U6 uses, see §
1123.01(f)(1)B.
§ 1121.01  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The city is hereby divided into six classes of use districts termed
respectively Class U1 and U2 or Residence Districts, Class U3 or Local Retail
Store District, Class U4 or Commercial District, Class U5 or Industrial
District, and Class U6 or Limited Residence Business District; into ten classes
of height districts termed respectively Classes H1, H2, H3, H4, H5, H6, H7, H8,
H9 and H10; into three classes of area districts termed respectively Classes
A1, A2 and A3; and into two classes of Building Line Districts termed
respectively Classes B1 and B2; all as shown on the zoning and districting maps
which accompany this zoning ordinance and are hereby approved and declared to
be part hereof.
(Ord. 5547, passed 4-21-1964)
§ 1121.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING AND DISTRICTING MAPS.
   The use, height, area and building line districts designated on such zoning
and districting maps are hereby established. The map legends and rules of
designation which accompany such maps are hereby declared to be part hereof.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1121.03  COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure or premises shall be
erected or used except in conformity with the regulations prescribed in this
zoning ordinance for the use, height, area and building line districts in which
such building, structure or premises is located.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
CHAPTER 1123:  PERMITTED, PROHIBITED AND CONDITIONAL USES
Section
1123.01   Classification of uses
1123.02   Prohibited uses
1123.03   Conditional uses
1123.04   Authorized conditional uses not absolute nor required
Cross-reference:
   Commercial district use regulations, see §§
1129.01 and
1129.02
   Conditional use permits, see §§
1105.02,
1107.03 and
1107.06
   Industrial district use regulations, see §§
1131.01 and
1131.02
   Local retail store district use regulations, see §§
1127.01 and
1127.02
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Residence district use regulations, see Ch.
1125
§ 1123.01  CLASSIFICATION OF USES.
   For the purposes of this zoning ordinance, the various uses of buildings,
structures and premises referred to in
Chapter 1121 are divided into groups, classes and subdivisions as set forth in
this chapter.
   (a)   Class U1 Residence uses. Single-family dwelling; double house; two-
family dwelling; shared housing facilities limited to adult family home and
residential facility family home.
   (b)   Class U2 Residence uses. Apartment house; shared housing facility
limited to adult family home and residential facility family home.
   (c)   Class U3 Local Retail Store uses.
      (1)   Bank; office; studio; telephone exchange; wholesale sales office or
sample room; ice delivery station; dry cleaning using approved nonflammable
solvent machine; farming, greenhouse, nursery, truck gardening;
      (2)   Retail trade or shop for custom work or the making of articles to
be sold at retail on the premises; restaurant, bar, night club; theater; moving
picture show; bowling alley; miniature golf or similar minor amusement
enterprise;
      (3)   Rooming house; and
      (4)   Any retail sales use not included in any other class.
   (d)   Class U4 Commercial uses.
      (1)   Skating rink or dance hall, if operated as a business for purposes
of private profit;
      (2)   Storage within a building in bulk or warehouse for such material as
clothing, cotton, drugs, dry goods, food, furniture, hardware, ice, machinery,
paint and paint materials, pipe, rubber, shop supplies, tobacco or wool,
wholesale produce market within a building; wholesale produce salesroom;
      (3)   Bottling works or central distributing station, provided the entire
operation including all loading, unloading and storage is confined within an
enclosed structure;
      (4)   Political signs or posters for a period of 60 days prior to and ten
days subsequent to any primary or regular election; and
      (5)   Any use similar to those listed herein as Class U4, but only when
so classified and approved by action of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (e)   Class U5 Industrial uses.
      (1)   Storage either outdoors in bulk or warehouse for such material as
contractor’s equipment, building material other than lumber, cord wood or
kindling, feed, fertilizer, or any similar use; wholesale produce market not
within a building; shoddy manufacture; textile fabric manufacture;
      (2)   Carpet cleaning, dyeing; steam laundry;
      (3)   Cold storage plant; ice manufacture;
      (4)   Canning or preserving factory; starch, glucose or dextrine
manufacture; sugar refining; tobacco manufacture; yeast manufacturing; sausage
manufacture;
      (5)   Blacksmith, horseshoing or wagon shop; carriage or wagon parts
manufacture; stable or wagon shed;
      (6)   Cotton machinery manufacture; cutlery or tools manufacture;
electrical machinery manufacture; nonferrous metal foundry; manufacture of
adding machines, cash registers, typewriters, bicycles, motor vehicles or
airplanes; rasp or file factory; wire products manufacture;
      (7)   Basket material factory; furniture factory;
      (8)   Cement products manufacture; stone cutting;
      (9)   Political signs or posters for a period of 60 days prior to and ten
days subsequent to any primary or regular election; and
      (10)   Any use similar to those listed herein as Class U5, but only when
so classified and approved by action of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (f)   Class U6 Limited Residence-Business uses.
      (1)   Within any Limited Residence-business District, no building or
premises shall be erected, altered, used, arranged or designated to be used, in
whole or in part, for other than one or more of the uses hereinafter specified
under this district, provided that:
         A.   All materials are stored inside buildings;
         B.   Setback building lines shall be as determined by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, but in a B2 Building Line District shall not be less than those
prescribed on the Building Line Districting Map; suitable planting is
maintained in the setback area; side yards and rear yards of not less than 25
feet are provided at lot lines which are also boundary lines of residence
districts; a fence or wall not less than six feet high is constructed on lot
lines which are also boundary lines of residence districts or of lots used for
residences;
         C.   There are adequate off-street loading and unloading facilities so
designed that any standing vehicle using them is within the property lines and
is either not visible from streets or not nearer than 50 feet to streets;
         D.   There is adequate off-street parking for the employees, owners
and others coming to the premises on matters incidental to the uses thereof,
and adequate off-street parking of trucks in space so located as not to be
visible from the streets or not nearer than 50 feet to streets;
         E.   Vehicular entrance and exit to any building or premises are from
a street designated as a through street or a truck route in the Traffic Code of
the city, or, if the premises in question does not abut such street, then from
any street approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals if it finds the probable
volume and type of traffic to such premises will not materially change the
existing character of such streets, nor be detrimental to the adjoining or
adjacent residential area;
         F.   Trucking operations are not conducted evenings, nights, Sundays
nor on holidays generally observed by business and single-shift industry;
         G.   The entire operation, including all loading, unloading and
storage, is confined within an enclosed structure; and
         H.   Any resulting dust, fumes, gases, glare, heat, noises, odors,
refuse matter, smoke, vapors, vibrations or other objectionable influences are
effectively confined to the premises.
      (2)   An apartment building or group of apartment buildings, provided
that the development has an area of not less than one acre and a street
frontage of not less than 100 feet;
      (3)   Office building; bank; telephone exchange; transformer station;
studio; wholesales office and sample room; research laboratory;
      (4)   Commercial sign, display or decorating shop; printing shop;
      (5)   Bottling works; ice cream plant; bakery;
      (6)   Wholesale, jobbing, distributing or warehouse storage establishment
for such materials as drugs, food, rubber, plastics, tobacco products, cotton,
wool, clothing, fabrics, furniture, hardware, ice, leather, metals other than
scrap or junk metals, shop and store supplies, including the making,
assembling, remodeling, repairing, altering, finishing or refinishing of these
products or merchandise, provided the processes used comply with the
limitations specified in division (f)(1) above;
      (7)   Any other building or use similar in character and operation to
those listed herein, but only when so classified and approved by action of the
Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (8)   An accessory use customarily incident to a Class U6 use shall be
permitted in a Class U6 District provided such accessory use is located on the
same premises with the building or use to which it is accessory. A local retail
use will be permitted as an accessory use provided that it is not a principal
use, it fronts on a street designated as a through street or a truck route in
the Traffic Code of the city and it is owned and operated by the owner or
operator of the principal Class U6 use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964; Ord. 5547, passed
4-21-1964; Ord. 5887, passed 3-26-1968; Ord. 31-07, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 32-
07, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 95-08, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 1123.02  PROHIBITED USES.
   (a)   Uses prohibited within city. The uses listed in this section are
specifically prohibited in the city.
      (1)   Letter “A”. Aircraft landing field; ammonia, bleaching powder,
sulphuric acid or other chemical plants emitting noxious, corrosive or toxic
fumes carrying beyond the limits of the premises; amusement park; asphalt
refining or manufacture.
      (2)   Letter “B”. Blast furnace; boiler making; brewing and distilling
liquors; brick, tile or ceramic insulator manufacture.
      (3)   Letter “C”. Carbon or lamp black manufacture; cellulose nitrate
manufacture; cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture; central
distributing station for oil or petroleum products; chlorine or hydrochloric,
nitric or picric acid manufacture; cider mill; coal distillation including
manufacture or derivation of the by-products; coal yard, coal hoist, coal
pocket or coal car trestle, except where the coal is consumed on premises; coke
ovens, creosote manufacture or treatment; cotton ginning and baling; cotton
seed products manufacture.
      (4)   Letter “D”. Disinfectant or insecticide manufacture; distillation
of bones; dry cleaning using flammable solvent; coin-operated dry cleaning
units in a U1, U2 or U6 Use District or in any building or premises containing
dwelling units located in a U3, U4 or U5 Use District.
      (5)   Letter “E”. Explosive or fireworks manufacture.
      (6)   Letter “F”. Fat rendering; ferrous metal foundry; fertilizer
manufacture; fish packing, storage, wholesale cleaning or market; flour mill.
      (7)   Letter “G”. Gas or oil well; gas manufacture from coal or petroleum
or storage thereof; glass manufacture; glue manufacture from raw materials;
grain elevator.
      (8)   Letter “H”.
      (9)   Letter “I”.
      (10)   Letter “J”.
      (11)   Letter “K”.
      (12)   Letter “L”. Locomotive manufacture; lumber yard.
      (13)   Letter “M”. Manufacture of metal powder.
      (14)   Letter “N”. (Repealed by Ord. 7967, passed March 7, 1989)
      (15)   Letter “O”.
      (16)   Letter “P”. Paper manufacture; petroleum refining; planing or saw
mill; plant, other than municipal or accessory, for the incineration or
reduction of garbage, offal or dead animals; plaster manufacture; power forge;
swimming pool in a U1 Use District, except a private swimming pool, all
portions of which, including appurtenances, are located at least 50 feet from
any property line of the lot upon which such private swimming pool is located
and at least 40 feet towards the rear from any setback line of such lot.
Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, the Board of Zoning Appeals and
Council may reduce such 50-foot requirement to not less than 15 feet if
consents of the owners and lessees of all properties contiguous to the property
upon which such pool is proposed to be constructed and consents of the owners
and lessees of any other properties within 50 feet of any portion of such
proposed pool, including appurtenances, are filed with the city. Such consents
shall be executed and filed on forms prepared and approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (17)   Letter “Q”.
      (18)   Letter “R”. Rail freight terminal; railroad roundhouse or shop;
railroad yards; railway car manufacture; raw hides or skins storage, curing or
tanning; reducing or refining nonferrous metals; refuse dump.
      (19)   Letter “S”. Salt works; scrap metal or junk storage; scrap paper
or rag storage or baling; slaughtering of animals; smelting of copper, tin or
zinc ores; soap manufacture; steel furnace blooming or rolling mill; stock
yards; storage of live poultry, or poultry killing or plucking; structural
metal or pipe works.
      (20)   Letter “T”. Tar distillation; tar roofing or tar waterproofing
manufacture; truck freight terminal; trailer camps and trailer parking.
      (21)   Letter “U”.
      (22)   Letter “V”.
      (23)   Letter “W”. Wire or rod mill; wood distillation, including
manufacture of charcoal, tar, turpentine and other by-products.
      (24)   Letter “X”.
      (25)   Letter “Y”.
      (26)   Letter “Z”.
   (b)   Prohibited uses. Any other use which in the determination of the Board
of Zoning Appeals is unsanitary, noxious or offensive by reason of the emission
of odors, dust, smoke, gas or noise, or which produces vibration or is
dangerous to life or property is prohibited.
   (c)   Uses prohibited in certain districts.
      (1)   The following uses are prohibited in a U1 or U2 Use District:
community center building; funeral home; hotel, motel, motor court or tourist
home, or similar buildings or parts thereof kept, used, maintained, advertised
or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are
offered for pay to transient guests, in which five or more rooms are used for
the accommodation of such guests; institution for the insane or feebleminded;
museum; philanthropic or eleemosynary use or penal or correctional institution;
stamping, drawing, pressing, shearing or punching metal; undertaking
establishment; outdoor or indoor used automobile sales facilities; indoor sales
facilities for used or secondhand merchandise of any kind or sort including
clothing, jewelry, tools, furniture or furnishings.
      (2)   The following uses are prohibited in a U1, U2 or U6 Use District:
billboard, signboard or advertising sign other than as an accessory use to a
business; except that political signs or posters shall be permitted for a
period of 120 days prior to and ten days subsequent to any primary or regular
election. In a U1 or U2 Use District such political signs or posters shall be
limited as follows: such signs or posters may only be placed as window signs
within an occupied residence; each such sign or poster shall not exceed four
and one-half square feet in area and not more than eight such signs or posters
shall be placed within any occupied residence; car washing as a principal
business; drive-in restaurant; open-air lots for the sale of materials,
supplies or equipment (new or used); pawn shop; outdoor or indoor new or used
trailer sales facilities; outdoor sales facilities for used or second hand
merchandise of any kind or sort including clothing, jewelry, tools, furniture
or furnishings; veterinary hospital; water supply reservoir or tower.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5104, passed 4-8-1958; Ord. 5379, passed 2-
27-1962; Ord. 5547, passed 4-21-1964; Ord. 5805, passed 4-1-1967; Ord. 7832,
passed 7-15-1986)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1123.03  CONDITIONAL USES.
   (a)   Conditional uses within city. The listed uses in this section, being
generally possible of classification in more than one use district, may be
authorized in any use district, unless otherwise limited herein, under the
conditions and in the manner prescribed in §
1105.02.
      (1)   Letter “A”. Any place of organized or unorganized religious
observance, worship, instruction or meeting place or any place where
educational, religious or other instruction, whether public or private, is
given, or any place used as a residence or domicile of persons of any religious
order or sect; apartment houses limited to occupancy by persons qualified as
elderly, that is 62 years of age and older.
      (2)   Letter “B”. Bookstore.
      (3)   Letter “C”. Cemetery; church; condominiums.
      (4)   Letter “D”. Coin-operated dry cleaning units in a U3, U4 or U5 Use
District, provided that no coin-operated, dry cleaning units shall be approved
as a conditional use if located in any building or premises containing dwelling
units and no coin-operated dry cleaning units shall be approved as a
conditional use unless a competent trained operator is present on the premises
at all times that such premises are open for business.
      (5)   Letter “E”. Electric substation. This use shall be granted only in
a U3, U4, U5 or U6 Use District.
      (6)   Letter “F”.
      (7)   Letter “G”. Gasoline and oil filling station, battery or tire
service station and, as accessory thereto, automobile service and repairs, but
specifically excluding any body work, electric or gas welding, brush or spray
painting, or any repairs requiring complete or partial disassembly of the
engine, transmission, differential, cooling system, except for hose and fan
belt replacement, and electrical system except for bulb, fuse or spark plug
replacement; garage or repair shop for motor vehicles as defined by §
1123.01(d) when proposed in a U3 District.
      (8)   Letter “H”. Hospital.
      (9)   Letter “I”.
      (10)   Letter “J”.
      (11)   Letter “K”.
      (12)   Letter “L”.
      (13)   Letter “M”. Metal buildings, nonmasonry buildings, except frame
construction of one- and two-family homes or private garages accessory to one-
or two-family homes.
      (14)   Letter “N”. Nursery, day school, kindergarten or other home or
institution where children are kept day or night.
      (15)   Letter “O”.
      (16)   Letter “P”. Pawn shop; off-street open-air vehicular parking
facilities as an accessory use but not permitted pursuant to §
1143.01(f) and other pertinent sections of this zoning ordinance, or off-street
open-air vehicular parking facilities not as an accessory use; philanthropic or
eleemosynary use or penal or correctional institution; private park,
playground, recreation building; public library; public or private school;
private tennis court; swimming pools. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions
of this section, no swimming pool shall be approved as a conditional use in a
U1 Use District except a private swimming pool all portions of which, including
appurtenances, are located at least 50 feet from any property line of the lot
upon which such private swimming pool is located and at least 40 feet towards
the rear from any setback line of such lot. Notwithstanding the foregoing
limitations, the Board of Zoning Appeals and Council may reduce such 50-foot
requirement to not less than 15 feet if consents of the owners and lessees of
all properties contiguous to the property upon which such pool is proposed to
be constructed and consents of the owners and lessees of any other properties
within 50 feet of any portion of such proposed pool, including appurtenances,
are filed with the city. Such consents shall be executed and filed on forms
prepared and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (17)   Letter “Q”.
      (18)   Letter “R”.  Railway, rapid transit or motor bus passenger
station, service building or yard.
      (19)   Letter “S”. Sanitarium, convalescent home, nursing home, rest home
or home
for the aging, including any institution or home of refuge, care or rest for
destitute, infirm, convalescent, aged or other persons requiring unusual care
or public or private care or assistance.
      (20)   Letter “T”.
      (21)   Letter “U”.
      (22)   Letter “V”.
      (23)   Letter “W”.
      (24)   Letter “X”.
      (25)   Letter “Y”.
      (26)   Letter “Z”.
      (27)   Any use or occupancy not included in a U1, U2, U3, U4, U5 or U6
Use District.
   (b)   Conditional uses in certain districts.
      (1)   The following uses shall be considered conditional uses but shall
not be approved as conditional uses in a U1 or U2 Use District: community
center building; funeral home; hotel, motel, motor court or tourist home, or
similar buildings or parts thereof kept, used, maintained, advertised or held
out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for
pay to transient guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the
accommodation of such guests; institution for the insane or feeble-minded;
museum; philanthropic or eleemosynary use or penal or correctional institution;
stamping, drawing, pressing, shearing or punching metal; undertaking
establishment; outdoor or indoor used automobile sales facilities; indoor sales
facilities for used or secondhand merchandise of any kind or sort including
clothing, jewelry, tools, furniture or furnishings.
      (2)   The following uses shall be considered conditional uses but shall
not be approved as conditional uses in a U1, U2, U3 or U6 Use District:
billboard, signboard or advertising sign other than political signs or posters
or signs accessory to a business; car washing as a principal business; open-air
lots for the sale of materials, supplies or equipment (new or used); pawn shop;
outdoor or indoor new or used trailer sales facilities; outdoor sales
facilities for used or second hand merchandise of any kind or sort including
clothing, jewelry, tools, furniture or furnishings; veterinary hospital; water
supply reservoir or tower; drive-in restaurant.
      (3)   The following uses shall be considered conditional uses but shall
not be approved as conditional uses in a U1, U2, U3, U4 or U6 Use District:
assaying (other than gold or silver); carbon battery or electric lamp
manufacture; chemicals manufacture, other than chemicals included in other
classes; cellulose material manufacture other than nitrate; rubber manufacture
from crude or scrap material; dyes manufacture; enameling (other than jewelry);
japanning; oil cloth or linoleum manufacture; enamel, japan, lacquer, oil
paint, shellac or varnish manufacture; oil compounding or barreling; printing
ink manufacture; railroad spur to be used in connection with any Class U5 use;
central station light or power plant; coal car trestle, coal hoist, pocket or
open storage where coal is consumed on the premises; crematory.
      (4)   The following uses shall be considered conditional uses but shall
not be approved as conditional uses in a U1, U2, U3 or U6 Use District:
electroplating; galvanizing; garage or repair shop for motor vehicles, such
repairs including body work, body painting and general welding, provided that
such work is performed within a service building and that no vehicles being
repaired shall be parked outside of such building; ice cream manufacture; hand
laundry; job printing; newspaper printing; railroad spur to be used in
connection with any Class U4 use.
      (5)   Shared housing facilities limited to adult group homes and
residential facility group homes shall be considered conditional uses in the U2
District only, and shall be approved as a conditional use in the U2 District
only when the Board of Zoning Appeals and City Council determines the proposed
use complies with the requirements set forth in §
1125.10.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5104, passed 4-8-1958; Ord. 5378, passed 2-
27-1962; Ord. 5379, passed 2-27-1962; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964; Ord. 5547,
passed 4-21-1964; Ord. 5805, passed 4-1-1967; Ord. 6134, passed 5-19-1970; Ord.
6354, passed 5-16-1972; Ord. 6575, passed 4-2-1974; Ord. 6719, passed 4-29-
1975; Ord. 30-07, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 96-08, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 1123.04  AUTHORIZED CONDITIONAL USES NOT ABSOLUTE NOR REQUIRED.
   (a)   Nothing contained in this zoning ordinance shall be construed as
authorizing, in any zone, a use which is unsanitary, noxious or offensive by
reason of the emission of odors, dust, smoke, gas or noise, or which produces
vibration or is dangerous to life or property.
   (b)   The fact that the foregoing conditional uses may be authorized in
certain use districts shall not be construed as requiring the Board of Zoning
Appeals or Council to authorize any such use in any one of these use districts.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5104, passed 4-8-1958)
CHAPTER 1125:  RESIDENCE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
1125.01   U1 prohibited uses
1125.02   U2 prohibited uses
1125.03   Permitted accessory uses
1125.04   Private garage floor area
1125.05   Signs
1125.06   Fences, walls and hedges
1125.07   Stores prohibited; home occupations
1125.08   Apartment service facilities
1125.09   Rooming and boarding houses
1125.10   Shared housing facilities
 
1125.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Off-street parking, see
Ch. 1143
   Permitted, prohibited and conditional uses, see
Ch.1123
§ 1125.01  U1 PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Class U1 District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed for a Class
U2, U3, U4, U5 or U6 use.
(Ord. 5547, passed 4-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
1125.99
§ 1125.02  U2 PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Class U2 District, no building or premises shall be used, and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed for a Class
U3, U4, U5 or U6 use. In a Class U2 District, no building or premises shall be
used, and no building shall be erected, which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used except for a Class U1 or U2 use or an authorized conditional use.
(Ord. 5547, passed 4-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
1125.99
§ 1125.03  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   An accessory use customarily incident to a Class U1 or U2 use shall also be
permitted in, respectively, a Class U1 or U2 District, provided such accessory
use is located upon the same lot with the building or use to which it is
accessory.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1125.04  PRIVATE GARAGE FLOOR AREA.
   A private garage permitted as an accessory use in a U1 District may have an
area of 550 square feet for each lot having an area of 4,000 square feet or
less and an additional floor area of 250 square feet may be provided for each
2,000 square feet of lot area by which such lot area exceeds 4,000 square feet.
A private garage permitted as an accessory use in a U2 District may have 250
square feet of floor area for each family occupying or permitted to occupy the
premises.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1125.05  SIGNS.
   (Editor’s note: Regulations pertaining to signs in residential districts are
now codified in
Chapter 1151 of the Planning and Zoning Code.)
§ 1125.06  FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (a)   A fence, wall or other structure or a hedge may be permitted as an
accessory use under the following limitations:
      (1)   That it shall not be so designed, in the opinion of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, as to cause damage to an adjoining owner;
      (2)   That, except with the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals, no
fence, wall or other structural hedge shall be erected or maintained to a
height of more than six feet above the grade level of the land on either side
thereof; and
      (3)   No fence, wall or other structure or hedge shall be erected or
maintained between a building line and the street line except with the approval
of the Board of Zoning Appeals, but in no instance shall a fence or hedge be
permitted between the building line and street line extending in excess of 24
inches above grade level so located as to interfere with the sight distance of
persons operating motor vehicles where lawfully permitted.
   (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to establish rules
and regulations to implement the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 6591, passed 4-30-1974; Ord. 68-94, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 1125.07  STORES PROHIBITED; HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A store, trade or business shall not be permitted as an accessory use except
that any person carrying on a customary home occupation for gain and requiring
only customary home equipment may do so in a dwelling or apartment used by him
or her as his or her private residence, provided no persons other than members
of his or her own household are employed in such occupation and no trading in
merchandise is carried on and no window display or sign is used to advertise
such occupation.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
1125.99
§ 1125.08  APARTMENT SERVICE FACILITIES.
   In an apartment house containing not less than 200 dwelling units, a service
facility such as a restaurant, coffee shop, beauty shop or valet shop shall be
deemed to be an accessory use provided that such service facility is located
within such apartment house building.
(Ord. 5886, passed 3-26-1968)
§ 1125.09  ROOMING AND BOARDING HOUSES.
   (a)   In a dwelling or apartment occupied as a private residence, rooms may
be rented or table board furnished to one or two persons in accordance with the
provisions of division (b) below, provided no window display or sign is used to
advertise such use.
   (b)   Unless approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, no person shall rent
or lease any premises or part thereof to roomers or furnish board in violation
of the provisions of this section.
      (1)   In a single-family dwelling there shall not be more than two
roomers.
      (2)   In a double house or a two-family dwelling there shall not be more
than one roomer in each family unit, except that upon written request by the
owner and approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals there may be two roomers in
one family unit and none in the other.
      (3)   In an apartment house there shall not be more than one roomer in
each apartment.
      (4)   No person not living in such building shall rent or lease to any
roomers.
      (5)   No person shall rent or lease to roomers on the third floor of any
dwelling.
      (6)   No person shall rent or lease to roomers in the basement.
      (7)   No person shall furnish board to more than two persons.
      (8)   No person shall rent or lease rooms in any part of a building
except his or her own suite or unit.
      (9)   Existing rooming houses, operated in Class U1 or U2 Districts, may
continue under temporary licenses, upon the approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
1125.99
§ 1125.10  SHARED HOUSING FACILITIES.
   For the purposes of this zoning ordinance, a shared housing facility that
may be authorized to be located in a U1 and U2 Residence District, as set forth
in
Chapter 1123, shall comply with the following regulations.
   (a)   Licensing requirements.
      (1)   All applicants proposing a shared housing facility shall present
evidence that the facility meets the certification, licensing and approval
requirements of the appropriate state agency.
      (2)   The facility shall maintain the required certification or license
from the appropriate state department at all times. Failure to do so shall be a
violation of this Planning and Zoning Code.
   (b)   Compliance with regulations.
      (1)   The facility shall comply with the height requirements set forth in
Chapter 1133, the area requirements set forth in
Chapter 1135 and side and rear yard requirements set forth in
Chapter 1141 for the district in which the facility is located.
      (2)   The facility shall comply with the health, fire and safety
regulations, occupancy restrictions, and building standards and regulations
that apply to single-family and two-family dwellings in a U1 District when
located in a U1 District and with the health, fire and safety regulations,
occupancy restrictions, and building standards and regulations that apply to
apartment houses in a U2 District when located in a U2 District.
   (c)   Occupancy documentation for residential facilities. Prior to a
mentally retarded or developmentally disabled person commencing residence in a
residential facility family home or residential facility group home, either the
applicant or the placement agency shall certify that the resident is
handicapped as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 3602(h) of the Federal Regulations.
   (d)   Separation standard. No adult family home, adult group home or
residential facility group home shall be located within 1,500 feet of any other
shared housing facility, including, but not limited to, any group home, halfway
house or other similar use existing and operating on the effective date of this
section. Separation distances shall be measured from property line to property
line by the shortest distance.
   (e)   Additional regulations for adult group homes and residential facility
group homes.
      (1)   All activities, programs and other events shall be directly related
to the conditional use permit applied for and as it is granted, and any changes
from the approved conditional use permit shall be reviewed and approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals and City Council. All activities, programs and other
events, and residents of the facility shall be adequately and properly
supervised so as to prevent any hazard and to assure against any disturbance or
nuisance to surrounding properties, residents or to the community in general.
      (2)   The architectural design and site layout of the shared housing
facility and the height of any walls, screens or fences connected with any said
facility shall be compatible with adjoining land uses and the residential
character of the neighborhood.
      (3)   The applicant shall demonstrate that adequate qualified supervision
will exist in the home on a 24-hour per day basis and shall, at time of
application, provide documentation on the training requirements for the staff
providing supervision and a weekly shift schedule identifying the number and
type of staff assigned to the facility.
      (4)   Signs or other means of identifying a shared housing facility shall
not be permitted.
      (5)   The applicant shall comply with the applicable parking regulations
and shall make adequate provision for on-site parking of vehicles used by
visitors and home supervisors.
   (f)   Shared housing facility existing and operating on the effective date
of this section. Any shared housing facility lawfully existing on the effective
date of this section shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use unless such
facility complies with all regulations for such use set forth in this Zoning
Code. Any change, modification, enlargement or alteration of such use, site
development, conditions or signs, change in ownership, or change in occupancy
shall only be permitted upon review and approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals
and City Council.
(Ord. 97-08, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 1125.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
101.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (b)   Any person, or agent or officer of a corporation, who violates any of
the provisions of §
1125.10 shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
1105.99.
(Ord. 97-08, passed 12-2-2008)
CHAPTER 1127:  LOCAL RETAIL STORE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
1127.01   Prohibited uses
1127.02   Accessory uses; private garage floor area
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1143
   Permitted, prohibited and conditional uses, see
Ch. 1123
   Side and rear yards, see
Ch. 1141
§ 1127.01  PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Class U3 District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
for a Class U4 or U5 use. In a Class U3 District, no building or premises shall
be used and no building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or
designed to be used except for a Class U1, U2 or U3 use or an authorized
conditional use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1127.02  ACCESSORY USES; PRIVATE GARAGE FLOOR AREA.
   An accessory use customarily incident to a Class U3 use shall be permitted
in a Class U3 District, provided such accessory use is located upon the same
lot with the building or use to which it is accessory. A private garage,
permitted as an accessory use in a U3 District, may have 250 square feet of
floor area for each family occupying or permitted to occupy the premises.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1129:  COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
1129.01   Prohibited uses
1129.02   Accessory uses
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1143
   Permitted, prohibited and conditional uses, see
Ch. 1123
   Side and rear yards, see
Ch. 1141
§ 1129.01  PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Class U4 District, no building or premises shall be used, and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
for a Class U5 use. In a Class U4 District, no building or premises shall be
used, and no building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used except for a Class U1, U2, U3 or U4 use or an authorized conditional
use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1129.02  ACCESSORY USES.
   An accessory use customarily incident to a Class U4 use shall be permitted
in a Class U4 District, provided such accessory use is located upon the same
lot with the building or use to which it is accessory.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1131:  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
1131.01   Prohibited uses
1131.02   Accessory uses
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming uses, see
Ch. 1139
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1143
   Permitted, prohibited and conditional uses, see
Ch. 1123
   Side and rear yards, see
Ch. 1141
§ 1131.01  PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Class U5 District, no building or premises shall be used, and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
except for a Class U1, U2, U3, U4 or U5 use or an authorized conditional use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1131.02  ACCESSORY USES.
   An accessory use customarily incident to a Class U5 use shall be permitted
in a Class U5 District, provided such accessory use is located on the same
premises with the building or use to which it is accessory.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1133:  HEIGHT DISTRICTS
Section
1133.01   Height limits for structures
1133.02   Ground sign height limit
1133.03   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Height defined, see §
1101.14
   Height of fences, walls and hedges, see §
1125.06
   Nonconforming height, see §
1139.01
§ 1133.01  HEIGHT LIMITS FOR STRUCTURES.
   (a)   In a Class H1 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 35 feet, except that in the case of a church,
school or library building such limit shall be 40 feet.
   (b)   In a Class H2 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 50 feet.
   (c)   In a Class H3 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 75 feet.
   (d)   In a Class H4 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 100 feet.
   (e)   In a Class H5 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 125 feet.
   (f)   In a Class H6 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 150 feet.
   (g)   In a Class H7 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 175 feet.
   (h)   In a Class H8 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 200 feet.
   (i)   In a Class H9 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 225 feet.
   (j)   In a Class H10 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 250 feet.
   (k)   In a Class H11 District, no building or other structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of 270 feet.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5145, passed 12-2-1958; Ord. 5345, passed
10-3-1961; Ord. 5387, passed 5-9-1962; Ord. 6093, passed 1-27-1970)  Penalty,
see §
101.99
§ 1133.02  GROUND SIGN HEIGHT LIMIT.
   (Editor’s note: Regulations pertaining to the height limit of signs are now
contained in
Chapter 1151 of the Planning and Zoning Code.)
§ 1133.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   Where practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships shall result from the
strict compliance with or the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board of Zoning Appeals, after public notice and hearing, shall have the
power to grant variances in these height limitations in harmony with the
general intent of the zoning ordinance and to secure the general welfare and
substantial justice in the promotion of the public health, comfort,
convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the city. Such power shall
include the power to exempt from these height limitations chimneys, elevator
and stairway enclosures, cooling and ventilating towers and shafts and similar
necessary service appurtenances which in total horizontal area do not exceed
20% of the horizontal roof area of a building.
(Ord. 5408, passed 8-14-1962)
CHAPTER 1135:  AREA DISTRICTS
Section
1135.01   Lot area for area districts
1135.02   Lot area for motels
1135.03   Area requirement applies to only one building
Cross-reference:
   Lot defined, see §
1101.17
   Nonconforming areas, see §
1139.01
§ 1135.01  LOT AREA FOR AREA DISTRICTS.
   (a)   In a Class A1 District, no building shall be erected or altered to
accommodate or make provision for more than one family for each 4,000 square
feet of the area of the lot if an interior lot, or for each 3,200 square feet
if a corner lot.
   (b)   In a Class A2 District, no building shall be erected or altered to
accommodate or make provision for more than one family for each 2,000 square
feet of the area of the lot if an interior lot, or for each 1,600 square feet
if a corner lot.
   (c)   Areas less than 2,000 square feet per family on interior lots or 1,600
square feet per family on corner lots now or in the future authorized by action
of the City Commission shall be designated as Class A3.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1135.02  LOT AREA FOR MOTELS.
   Council, in approving motels as a conditional use, may permit a lot area of
not less than 600 square feet for each guest room or apartment, or combination
thereof.
(Ord. 4881, passed 8-23-1955)
§ 1135.03  AREA REQUIREMENT APPLIES TO ONLY ONE BUILDING.
   The lot area used in meeting the requirements of this chapter for any one
building shall not be included as a part of the required area for any other
building.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1137:  BUILDING LINE DISTRICTS
Section
1137.01   Prohibited structures and parking
1137.02   B1 Building Line District
1137.03   B2 Building Line District
1137.04   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Map B2 District setback lines are minimum for Class U6 uses, see §
1123.01(f)(1)B.
   Nonconforming building setback, see §
1139.01
   Off-street parking and loading within setback, see §
1143.03
   Setback defined, see §
1101.29
§ 1137.01  PROHIBITED STRUCTURES AND PARKING.
   Except as herein provided, in any Class B1 or Class B2 Building Line
District, no building or structure or portion of a building or structure
extending above the established grade shall be erected between a building line
as herein prescribed and the street line. In a U1 or U2 Use District, no motor
vehicle shall be parked between a building line as herein prescribed and the
street line.
(Ord. 5150, passed 12-16-1958)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1137.02  B1 BUILDING LINE DISTRICT.
   (a)   In a Class B1 Building Line District, where the buildings on 20% or
more of the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting streets
are set back from the street line, the alignment of the existing buildings
shall be the building line. For the purpose of determining the percentage of
the frontage that is improved with buildings which are set back from the street
line, the frontage of that portion of the open space adjacent to a building
which is used in connection with such building shall be included. Minor
irregularities in such alignment of existing buildings may be disregarded by
the Board of Zoning Appeals in defining and applying this building line
regulation, or the Board may, when in its opinion the general purpose and
intent of this section will be better served thereby, determine that the
average distance the existing buildings are back from the street line shall be
the building line.
   (b)   In a Class B1 Building Line District, where less than 20% of the
frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting streets is improved
with buildings, the distance of the building line from the street line shall be
15% of the average depth of the lots along such frontage but need not be more
than 30 feet.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1137.03  B2 BUILDING LINE DISTRICT.
   In a Class B2 Building Line District, the distance from the street line to
the building line shall be as prescribed on the Building Line Districting Map.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1137.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   The following portions of a building in a Class B1 Building Line
District may project from the major exterior wall into the area between the
building line and the street line for the separately indicated distances:
      (1)   Unenclosed porches for not more than nine feet;
      (2)   Entries for not more than four feet if not over one and one-half
stories in height;
      (3)   Front bays and chimneys for not more than two feet;
      (4)   Steps for not more than nine feet; and
      (5)   Ordinary projections of window sills, belt courses or other
ornamental features for not more than four inches, and cornices, eaves or
awnings for not more than three feet.
   (b)   At a street corner where a Class B1 Building Line District meets the
side line of a corner lot in a Class B2 Building Line District, there shall be
no setback for the first 140 feet from the corner. The Class B1 building line
shall begin at the street line 140 feet from the corner and run in a straight
line at an angle with the street line to reach the full Class B1 setback
distance at a point along such street line distance five times the Class Bl
setback distance from the point of beginning.
   (c)   In a Class B2 Building Line District, ordinary projections of window
sills, belt courses or other ornamental features for not more than four inches
and cornices or eaves for not more than three feet may extend into the area
between the building line and the street line.
   (d)   Subject to the provisions of the City Building Code and to the
limitations of pertinent sections of this zoning ordinance, the Board of Zoning
Appeals is authorized to establish rules and regulations governing awnings and
marquees and billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether or not
attached to a building, which project either into the area between the building
line and the street line or into the street area.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)
CHAPTER 1139:  NONCONFORMING USES, HEIGHT, AREAS OR SETBACK
Section
1139.01   Continuance
1139.02   Extension of nonconforming use prohibited
1139.03   Repair or alteration; Board recommendations to Council
1139.04   Change to conforming use
1139.05   Change to other nonconforming use
1139.06   Abandonment of nonconforming use
Cross-reference:
   Continuance of authorized variances and U8 uses, see §
1103.04
   Nonconformance defined, see §
1101.21
   Nonconforming uses, retroactive measures, see Ohio R.C. 713.15
§ 1139.01  CONTINUANCE.
   A nonconforming use, height, area or building setback the continuation of
which was authorized by Ordinances 1575 and 1576, passed April 11, 1922, or
amendments thereto, or any existing uses, heights, areas, including off-street
parking and loading spaces or building setbacks conforming with such ordinances
and made nonconforming by this zoning ordinance or any amendments thereto may
be continued. Nothing contained in this zoning ordinance shall be construed as
authorizing the continuance of any existing nonconforming use, height, area or
building setback not authorized by Ordinances 1575 and 1576 or amendments
thereto.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1139.02  EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING USE PROHIBITED.
   A nonconforming use shall not be extended either within a building or upon a
lot. The movement of a nonconforming use from its original position to any
other position on the same lot or within the same building shall be considered
an extension and therefore prohibited hereby.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1139.03  REPAIR OR ALTERATION; BOARD RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, buildings or other structures which do not
conform with the requirements of this zoning ordinance for use, height, area of
lot, off-street parking requirements, off-street loading requirements or
setback may not be subject to major repairs, substantial alterations or
extensions, nor may the use be changed unless and until all the requirements of
this zoning ordinance have been fulfilled so far as they apply to the
particular building or structure. Where it is proposed to improve an existing
building or structure by major repairs, substantial alteration or extensions,
or the use of an existing building or structure is proposed to be changed and
the building or structure, together with the adjacent lot area, does not
fulfill the requirements of this zoning ordinance for use, height, area of lot,
off-street parking requirements, off-street loading requirements or setback,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may recommend to Council modification of these
requirements, provided the Board of Zoning Appeals determines that the
recommended modified requirements will not have a more adverse effect upon the
neighborhood than the existing nonconformities and are in harmony with the
general intent of this zoning ordinance and will secure the general welfare and
substantial justice in the promotion of public health, comfort, convenience,
morals, safety and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 4900, passed 12-13-1955)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1139.04  CHANGE TO CONFORMING USE.
   A nonconforming use which is changed to a conforming use may not thereafter
be changed back to any nonconforming use. A nonconforming use included in the
list of prohibited uses shall not be changed except to a conforming use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1139.05  CHANGE TO OTHER NONCONFORMING USE.
   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any other nonconforming use
unless permission for such change has been granted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals and Council, when in the opinion of the Board and Council the proposed
use more closely resembles a conforming use than does the existing
nonconforming use, and when such proposed use is in harmony with the general
intent of this zoning ordinance and will secure the general welfare and
substantial justice in the promotion of the public health, comfort,
convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1139.06  ABANDONMENT OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (a)   A nonconforming use which has been abandoned shall not be resumed and
shall not be replaced by a nonconforming use.
   (b)   A nonconforming use of land or a building shall be deemed abandoned
when such use has been replaced by a conforming use or when the nonconforming
use has ceased and has not been resumed for a continuous period of six months.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
CHAPTER 1141:  SIDE AND REAR YARDS
Section
1141.01   Rear dwellings
1141.02   Side yard requirements
1141.03   Rear yard requirements
1141.04   Projections into yards
Cross-reference:
   Class U6 side and rear yards adjacent to residence districts, see §
1123.01(f)(1)B.
   Definitions, see §§
1101.16 and
1101.34
§ 1141.01  REAR DWELLINGS.
   In any use district, every dwelling or apartment house erected or used shall
have access to a public street for its sole and exclusive use. No dwelling or
apartment house may be erected or used in the rear of another building unless
an easement of record at least 20 feet in width for access to a public street
is provided and maintained at all times for the sole and exclusive use of the
rear dwelling or apartment house and not as a part of any lot or yard area
required by ordinance or regulation. Such easement shall provide a driveway and
walk which shall be covered with an impervious type surface. Such rear dwelling
or apartment house shall not be erected nor used until separate water and sewer
connections are provided directly from such dwelling or apartment house to the
city water and sewer lines and such water, sewer and other underground
utilities must be located within the easement area provided for herein. Such
rear dwelling or apartment house shall also comply with all requirements or
ordinances in regard to area, height, side yards, rear yards and other
pertinent provisions. In cases where a rear dwelling or apartment house already
exists and it is desired to construct a dwelling or apartment house on the
front portion of the lot, the requirements of this section for rear houses must
be complied with before a dwelling or apartment house may be constructed on the
front portion of the lot. The dwelling or apartment house to be constructed on
the front portion of the lot shall comply with all requirements or ordinances
in regard to area, height, side yards, rear yards and other applicable
provisions.
(Ord. 5400, passed 7-3-1962)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1141.02  SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In a Class U1 or U2 District, for every residential building erected,
there shall be a side yard along each side lot line.
      (1)   In a Class U1 District, the dimension of each side yard shall be
not less than three feet, and at least 20% of the mean width of the lot shall
be devoted to side yards but not more than 16 feet need to be so devoted.
      (2)   In a Class U2 District, the dimension of each side yard shall be
not less than one-sixth of the height of the building.
   (b)   In a Class U3, U4 or U5 District, no side yard shall be required,
except that where the side line of the lot adjoins a Class U1 or U2 District
the side yard shall be not less than one-sixth the height of the building.
   (c)   A motel with exterior windows in a side wall shall have a side yard
equal to 25% of the height of such exterior wall. A motel with no exterior
windows in a side wall may have such side wall built on the property line,
providing the adjoining property is not in a U1 or U2 Use District, in which
case the requirements of division (b) above shall govern.
   (d)   In a Class U6 District, no side yard shall be required, except that
where the side line of the lot adjoins a Class U1 or U2 District the side yard
shall be not less than 25 feet.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 4881, passed 8-23-1955; Ord. 5547, passed
4-21-1964)
§ 1141.03  REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In a Class U1 or U2 District, every residential building erected shall
have a rear yard.
      (1)   In a Class U1 District, the least dimension of the rear yard shall
be at least 15% of the mean depth of the lot, but such least dimension need not
be more than 30 feet.
      (2)   In a Class U2 District, the least dimension of the rear yard shall
not be less than one-half of the height of the building.
      (3)   Forty percent of the area of the rear yard in a Class U1 or U2
District may be occupied by a one-story accessory building not more than 15
feet in height. Such an accessory building shall not be closer than 18 inches
to any property line.
   (b)   In a Class U3, U4 or U5 District where the rear line of the lot
adjoins a Class U1 or U2 District, every building erected shall have a rear
yard. The least dimension of such yard shall be at least 10% of the mean depth
of the lot, but such least dimension need not be more than 20 feet, provided
that such least dimension shall in no case be less than one-fourth of the
height of the building.
   (c)   In a Class U6 District where the rear line of the lot adjoins a Class
U1 or U2 District, every building erected shall have a rear yard of at least 25
feet.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5547, passed 4-21-1964)
§ 1141.04  PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   (a)   The area required in a yard shall be open from the yard level to the
sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projections of window sills, belt
courses or other ornamental features for not more than four inches, and
cornices, eaves or awnings for not more than three feet.
   (b)   An open or lattice enclosed iron fire escape may project not more than
eight feet into a rear yard. The fireproof outside stairway or solid-floored
balcony to a fire tower may project not more than four feet into a rear yard.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964)  Penalty, see §
101.99
CHAPTER 1143:  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
1143.01 Off-street parking requirements
1143.02 Off-street loading requirements
1143.03 Off-street parking and loading within setback
1143.04 Use not specifically mentioned
1143.05 Mixed uses; uses considered separately
1143.06 Joint use of parking and loading space
1143.07 Obligation of owner
1143.08 Overnight parking
1143.09 Maintenance of facilities; reduction of number of spaces
1143.10 Plans for construction or repairs
Cross-reference:
   Class U6 requirements, see §
1123.01(f)(1)C. and D.
   Definitions, see §§
1101.23 and
1101.24
   Off-street parking facilities, see Ohio R.C. 717.05 et seq.
§ 1143.01  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Except as hereinafter provided, no residential, commercial, industrial
or other building or structure shall be erected and no major repairs,
substantial alterations or extensions shall be made to an existing residential,
commercial, industrial or other building or structure unless off-street parking
space is provided in accordance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance in
the minimum amounts specified in division (c) below. Where it is proposed to
improve an existing building or structure by major repairs, substantial
alterations or extensions, or the use of an existing building or structure is
changed and the building or structure, together with the adjacent lot area,
does not fulfill the parking requirements of division (c) below, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may recommend to Council a modification of these requirements,
provided the Board determines that the recommended modified requirements will
not have a more adverse effect upon the neighborhood than the existing
nonconformities and are in harmony with the general intent of this zoning
ordinance and will secure the general welfare and substantial justice in the
promotion of public health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and general
welfare of the city.
   (b)   All off-street parking areas shall conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   With the exception of parking stalls in which vehicles are parked
parallel to the parking aisle, the depth of any parking stall measured
perpendicularly to the parking aisle shall be not less than 20 feet. Parking
stalls in which vehicles are parked parallel to the parking aisle shall be not
less than nine feet in depth measured perpendicularly to the parking aisle.
      (2)   With the exception of parking stalls in which vehicles are parked
parallel to the parking aisle, the width of any parking stall, measured
perpendicularly to the sides, shall be not less than nine feet. Parking stalls
in which vehicles are parked parallel to the parking aisle shall be not less
than 20 feet in width measured parallel to the parking aisle.
      (3)   The width of any parking aisle shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (4)   All parking areas shall be designed so that during a backing
maneuver no part of a vehicle shall encroach beyond the limits of the parking
area or into a dedicated street or setback.
      (5)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require parking stalls in addition
to the minimum specified by this zoning ordinance where the parking aisles or
other portions of the parking area are to be used for any purpose other than
for aisles or parking or when, because of the shape or location of the parking
area in relation to any abutting streets or private property, such additional
parking stalls are deemed necessary.
      (6)   In the interests of safety to persons and protection of property,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may require that a protecting curb or barrier at
least five inches high be placed to prevent any part of a vehicle from
extending beyond the limits of the parking stall.
      (7)   Existing parking areas which are used for existing businesses may
not be reduced below the minimum requirements of this zoning ordinance for new
businesses unless the character of the existing business is changed to require
a lesser parking area. For the purpose of interpreting the parking requirements
of this zoning ordinance as relating to new businesses, such existing parking
areas for existing businesses may not be used in calculating the available
parking spaces required for new businesses.
   (c)   Required number of spaces.
      (1)   Dwellings shall have one off-street parking space for each dwelling
unit.
      (2)   Apartment houses shall have one and one-fourth off-street parking
spaces for each dwelling unit.
      (3)   Hotels, motels, clubs, rooming houses, tourist homes, dormitories,
fraternities and similar places offering overnight accommodations shall have a
minimum of five off-street parking spaces plus one space for each guest room.
If, in addition to those spaces provided for guests, patrons or residents of
the above named places, assembly halls, bars, restaurants, night clubs, retail
shops or room for other shops, service establishments or businesses are
provided, additional off-street parking spaces shall be provided in the amount
specified in this zoning ordinance for such uses.
      (4)   Hospitals, sanatoriums, nursing homes, convalescent homes, homes
for the aged and infirm and similar institutions shall have one off-street
parking space for each two patient beds and one additional off-street parking
space for each dormitory room and dwelling unit provided for resident
personnel.
      (5)   Motion picture and other theaters shall have one off-street parking
space for each six seats provided for patron use.
      (6)   Nightclubs, bars, restaurants, assembly halls, auditoriums, skating
rinks, dance halls, bowling alleys, stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks,
circus grounds, churches, funeral homes, community centers, libraries, museums
and similar places of public assembly including clubs, lodges and fraternal
buildings not providing overnight accommodations shall have one off-street
parking space for each six seats provided for patron use or one off-street
parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area used or intended to
be used for service to the public as customers, patrons and clients, whichever
requires the greater number of parking spaces.
      (7)   Buildings containing retail establishments, including personal
service shops, equipment or repair shops, gasoline filling stations, motor
vehicle sales or repair establishments, retail stores and banks or other
financial institutions shall have one off-street parking space for each 200
square feet of gross floor area used or intended to be used for service to the
public as customers, patrons and clients.
      (8)   Office buildings, including commercial, governmental and
professional buildings, and medical and dental clinics, shall have one off-
street parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area used or
intended to be used for service to the public as customers, patrons and
clients.
      (9)   Wholesale, manufacturing and industrial plants, including
warehouses, storage buildings and yards, public utility buildings, contractor
equipment and lumber yards, research laboratories, business service
establishments such as blueprinting, printing and engraving and bottling works
shall have one off-street parking space for each two and one-half employees.
      (10)   Schools, including academies, colleges, universities, elementary
schools, junior high schools, high schools and prep schools shall have one off-
street parking space for each two employees, including administrators, teachers
and building maintenance personnel.
   (d)   The off-street parking facilities required by this zoning ordinance
shall be on the same lot or parcel of land as the building or structure they
are intended to serve. When practical difficulties, in the opinion of the Board
of Zoning Appeals, prevent establishment of off-street parking facilities
required by this zoning ordinance on such same lot or parcel of land, the Board
of Zoning Appeals may, subject to use limitations, approve another location for
such facilities if such location is reasonable and consistent with the intent
of this zoning ordinance.
   (e)   No part of an off-street parking area required by this zoning
ordinance for any one building or use shall be included as a part of an off-
street parking area similarly required for another building or use.
   (f)   Except where otherwise permitted as a conditional use pursuant to §
1123.03(a)(16) of this zoning ordinance, off-street parking facilities as an
accessory use must be located in the same or a less restricted use district as
that required for the principal use of the premises.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953; Ord. 4900, passed 12-13-1955; Ord. 4970, passed
9-18-1956; Ord. 5104, passed 4-8-1958; Ord. 5185, passed 6-30-1959;
Ord. 5286, passed 11-1-1960; Ord. 5531, passed 2-11-1964; Ord. 6353, passed 5-
16-1972)
§ 1143.02  OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Compliance and required area. No residential, commercial, industrial
or any other building or structure shall be erected and no major repairs shall
be made to existing residential, commercial, industrial or any other building
or structure unless off-street truck loading space is provided in accordance
with the provisions of this zoning ordinance in the minimum amounts specified
in this section.
      (1)   Every department store, hospital or sanatorium, industrial plant,
manufacturing establishment, retail establishment, storage warehouse and
wholesale establishment which has an aggregate gross floor area of 20,000
square feet or more arranged, intended or designed for such use, shall provide
off-street truck loading or unloading spaces in accordance with the following
table.
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Required No. of Spaces
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)    Required No. of Spaces
20,000 to 40,000                        1
40,001 to 100,000                       2
100,001 to 160,000                      3
160,001 to 240,000                      4
240,001 to 320,000                      5
320,001 to 400,000                      6
400,001 to 490,000                      7
For each additional 90,000 over 490,000 1
 
      (2)   Every auditorium, sports arena, funeral home, hotel, apartment
house, office building, restaurant and welfare institution which has an
aggregate gross floor area of 100,000 square feet or more, arranged, intended
or designed for such use, shall provide off-street truck loading or unloading
spaces in accordance with the following table.
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Required No. of Spaces
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)       Required No. of Spaces
100,000 to 150,000                         1
150,001 to 400,000                         2
400,001 to 660,000                         3
660,001 to 970,000                         4
970,001 to 1,300,000                       5
1,300,001 to 1,630,000                     6
1,630,001 to 1,960,000                     7
1,960,001 to 2,300,000                     8
For each additional 350,000 over 2,300,000 1
 
   (b)   On-site location: use of parking space prohibited. The off-street
loading facilities required by this zoning ordinance shall in all cases be upon
the same lot or parcel of land as the building or structure they are intended
to serve. In no case shall the required off-street loading space be part of the
area used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements of this zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1143.03  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING WITHIN SETBACK.
   Except for access drives, no part of the off-street loading or parking area
required by this zoning ordinance shall be within the setback distance on any
street.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1143.04  USE NOT SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED.
   In the case of a use not specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-
street parking and off-street loading facilities for a use which is so
mentioned and to which such use is similar, shall apply.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1143.05  MIXED USES; USES CONSIDERED SEPARATELY.
   In the case of mixed uses, the total requirements for off-street parking and
off-street loading space shall be the sum of the requirements of the various
uses computed separately as specified in this zoning ordinance, and the off-
street parking and off-street loading for one use shall not be considered as
providing the required off-street parking or off-street loading space for any
other use.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1143.06  JOINT USE OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACE.
   Nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be construed as preventing the joint
use of off-street parking or off-street loading space for two or more buildings
or uses if the total of such spaces when used together shall not be less than
the sum of the requirements for the various individual uses computed
separately.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1143.07  OBLIGATION OF OWNER.
   The schedule of requirements for off-street parking space and off-street
loading space applicable to newly erected or substantially altered structures
shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the real estate on which any
such structure is located so long as the structure is in existence and its use
requiring vehicle parking or vehicle loading facilities continues. No owner of
any building affected by this zoning ordinance shall discontinue, change or
dispense with, or cause the discontinuance or change of the required vehicle
parking or loading space apart from the discontinuance, sale or transfer of
such structure, without establishing alternative vehicle parking or loading
space which meets with the requirements of and is in compliance with this
zoning ordinance. No person, firm or corporation shall use such building
without acquiring such land for vehicle parking or loading space which meets
with the requirements of and is in compliance with this zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1143.08  OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   In any use district, only those vehicles may be parked overnight which are
normally associated with the particular uses for which the district is zoned.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1143.09  MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES; REDUCTION OF NUMBER OF SPACES.
   All off-street parking and loading facilities required by this zoning
ordinance shall have an impervious pavement, shall be drained, lighted and
maintained by the owner, shall include adequate means of ingress and egress and
shall be arranged for convenient access and safety of pedestrians and vehicles.
Where parking or loading areas abut a city street, there shall be a protecting
curb or barrier at least three feet from the street line and parallel thereto
and at least five inches high, securely anchored to the ground and extending
continuously across the lot except for the necessary openings for drainage and
opposite authorized driveways. The number of parking spaces in a parking area
shall not be reduced except upon approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals and
then only after proof that, by reason of diminution of floor area, seating,
number of employees or change in other factors controlling the requirement of a
certain number of parking spaces, the proposed reduction is reasonable and
consistent with the intent of this zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
§ 1143.10  PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIRS.
   Plans for new building construction or major repairs submitted to the
Building Inspector with an application for a building permit shall show the
arrangement of parking spaces and loading spaces, the provisions for ingress
and egress thereto, the type of pavement, drainage features and lighting.
(Ord. 4761, passed 11-17-1953)
CHAPTER 1151:  SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
1151.01   Purpose
1151.02   Application of sign regulations
1151.03   Computations
1151.04   Maximum sign areas permitted
1151.05   Maximum height permitted for freestanding signs
1151.06   Supplementary sign regulations
1151.07   Projecting sign plan
1151.08   Design and construction standards
1151.09   Administrative procedures
1151.10   Maintenance
1151.11   Alteration and removal of nonconforming signs
Cross-reference:
   Sign permits and fees, see
Ch. 1310
§ 1151.01  PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the general health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the city by establishing sign regulations, as
necessary, to ensure that signs are in harmony with the character of the
associated use and surrounding area. A sign may be erected, placed,
established, painted, created or maintained in the city only in conformance
with the standards, procedures, exemptions and other requirements of this
chapter.
   (b)   As more specifically set forth herein, the purposes of these sign
regulations are to:
      (1)   Promote and maintain attractive, high value residential districts;
      (2)   Provide reasonable, yet appropriate, conditions for identifying
businesses and commercial enterprises;
      (3)   Control the size, location and design so that signs will be
aesthetically harmonious with their surroundings;
      (4)   Eliminate any conflict which would be hazardous between business or
identification signs and traffic-control signs and devices;
      (5)   Provide review procedures which enable the city to comprehensively
evaluate the appropriateness of the sign to the site, building and
surroundings;
      (6)   Assure that signs are located and designed to maintain a safe and
orderly pedestrian and vehicular environment; and
      (7)   Prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.02  APPLICATION OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The regulations and standards contained in this chapter shall apply to
signs outside of the public right-of-way. A sign may only be erected,
established, painted, created or maintained in the city in conformance with the
standards, procedures, exemptions and other requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   No signs shall be permitted in the public right-of-way, except for the
following:
      (1)   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body, when
approved by the city, to post legal notices, identify public property, convey
public information, and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Bus stop signs erected by a public transit company;
      (3)   Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes or facilities; and
      (4)   Awning, marquee and projecting signs projecting over a public
right-of-way in conformity with the conditions of §
1151.08.
   (c)   Any sign installed or placed on public property, except in conformance
with the requirements of this section, shall be forfeited to the public and
subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the city
shall have the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign
the full costs of removal and disposal of such sign and any damages caused to
public property.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.03  COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height.
   (a)   Determining sign area or dimension.
      (1)   For a sign which is framed, outlined, painted and otherwise
prepared and intended to provide a background for a sign display, the area
shall include the entire portion within the outside dimensions of the
background or frame.
      (2)   For a sign comprised of individual letters, figures or elements on
a wall or similar surface, or an irregular shaped freestanding sign, the area
of the sign shall encompass a regular, or a combination of regular geometric
shapes which form, or approximate, the perimeter of all the elements in the
display. When separate elements are organized to form a single sign but the
elements are separated by open space, the area shall be calculated by
determining the geometric form or combination of forms which comprise all the
display area including the space between the elements.
      (3)   The sign area shall include the frame, but shall not include the
pole or other necessary structural support unless such pole or structural
support is illuminated or otherwise so designated to constitute a display
surface or device.
      (4)   A freestanding sign shall have no more than two display surfaces,
provided that the two display surfaces are arranged back-to-back and not more
than 12 inches from each other. Each display surface shall be considered a sign
face.
      (5)   In the event there is a dispute in determining the sign area or any
sign dimension, the Architectural Board of Review shall have the final
responsibility for making such determination.
   (b)   Determining sign height. The height of a freestanding sign in a
commercial district shall be measured from the grade at the nearest right-of-
way line to the top of the highest element. The height of a temporary
freestanding sign in a residential district shall be measured from the grade at
the base of the signpost to the top of the highest element.
   (c)   Determining building frontage. The length of the building which faces
the principal street or the length of the wall of the building which contains
the main entrance to the uses therein shall be considered the building
frontage.
      (1)   In the case of an irregular wall surface, a straight line extended
along such wall surface shall be used to measure the length.
      (2)   Only one exterior wall of any business shall be considered its
frontage.
      (3)   For multi-tenant buildings, the portion of a building which is
owned or leased by a single tenant shall be considered a building unit.
      (4)   The length of a building unit is that portion of the building so
occupied by a single activity and calculated in the same manner as the building
frontage.
   (d)   Determining window area. The window area of a building shall be the
total glass area of windows on the first floor of the wall of the building
facing a public street, provided that for the purposes of these regulations,
the height of windows on the first floor shall be that portion of the window
within 15 feet of the grade. A window panel shall be the area of glass
separated from another window panel by an opaque panel four or more inches
wide.
   (e)   Determining allowable identification sign area.
      (1)   The maximum area for identification signs in commercial and special
districts and conditional uses, as specified in §§
1151.04 and
1151.06, shall include the sum of the areas of the following signs except when
exempt as specified in division (e)(2) below:
         A.   Identification signs, whether awning, wall, window or marquee;
         B.   Instructional signs;
         C.   Nameplates; and
         D.   Permanent window signs.
      (2)   The following signs are exempt from being included in the maximum
allowable area for identification signs:
         A.   Instructional signs which are clearly intended for instructional
purposes and:
            1.   Are less than ten square feet and within 25 feet of and
visible from the street;
            2.   Are located within 25 feet of, but not visible from, the
street; or
            3.   Are more than 25 feet from the street.
         B.   Nameplates, when they are separate from identification signs, are
located near the main entrance, are wall or window signs and only contain the
street number and name of the establishment; and
         C.   Permanent window signs which occupy less than 10% of the window
area.
      (3)   The following signs are permitted in addition to the gross
allowable areas specified by §
1151.04 and bonuses allowed by §
1151.06 unless otherwise regulated in this Zoning Code:
         A.   Building markers;
         B.   Public purpose/safety signs;
         C.   Construction sign; and
         D.   Directional signs.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.04  MAXIMUM SIGN AREAS PERMITTED.
   Signs, as permitted in the respective zoning districts, shall conform to the
maximum area requirements in Schedule 1151.04 below unless regulations are
otherwise specified in this Zoning Code.
Schedule 1151.04 Maximum Sign Area Regulations (Maximum Areas in Square Feet)
             Residential and Park   Commercial and Special Districts
             Districts
Type of Sign Single-/Two- Multiple- Institutional Commercial Uses Institutional
             Family       Family(a) Uses                          Uses
Schedule 1151.04 Maximum Sign Area Regulations (Maximum Areas in Square
Feet)
               Residential and Park   Commercial and Special Districts
               Districts
Type of Sign   Single-/Two- Multiple- Institutional Commercial Institutional
               Family       Family(a) Uses          Uses       Uses
Commercial     N.P.         N.P.      N.P.          (e)        N.P.
identification
Construction   N.P.         12(1)     12            24         24
Directional    N.P.         4(h)      4(h)          4(h)       4(h)
Institutional  N.P.         N.P.      24(c)         N.P.       (d)
identification
Instructional  N.P.         (f)       (f)           (f)        (f)
Nameplate (b)  2            2         2             2          2
Permanent      N.P.         N.P.      N.P.          (m)        (m)
window sign
Public         (k)          (g)       (g)           (g)        (g)
purpose/safety
Residential    N.P.         10        N.A.          N.A.       N.A.
identification
Temporary      12(i)        12(i)(n)  12(i)(o)      (j)        (j)
N.A. = Not applicable
N.P. = Not permitted
Notes to Schedule
1151.04:
(a) These standards shall also apply to multiple-family developments in
commercial or special districts.
(b) One per dwelling unit for a single-family or two-family dwelling, or
address for a multiple-family dwelling, institution or business.
(c) Maximum sign area permitted per face. Single faced and two-faced
freestanding signs shall be permitted. See also §
1151.06(b).
(d) The maximum permitted area for institutional identification signs for
conditionally permitted institutional uses in a commercial or special
district is one square foot for each lineal foot of building frontage. Each
face of a two-faced freestanding sign shall be counted toward the total. In
no case shall the maximum permitted area exceed 150 square feet.
(e) The maximum permitted area for commercial identification signs in a
commercial or special district is ten square feet plus one square foot for
each lineal foot of building frontage over ten feet. This maximum area
applies to the sum of all types of identification signs (wall, window or
awning), nameplates, instructional signs, and directional signs unless
otherwise exempt pursuant to §
1151.03(e). In no case shall the maximum permitted area exceed 150 square
feet.
(f) Considered an identification sign unless exempt pursuant to §
1151.03(e).
(g) Public purpose/safety signs shall be permitted as needed to achieve the
intended public purpose.
(h) Maximum area of a directional sign shall be per sign face. There shall
be no more than two freestanding directional signs per access drive.
(i) Total aggregate sign area for each institutional use or residential
zoning lot. See also §
1151.06(f).
(j) Shall comply with the regulations of §
1151.06(e)(5) (temporary window signs) and §
1151.06(f) (temporary signs),
(k) See §
1151.06(a) (safety and security signs in residential districts).
(l) Permitted only in an MF-3 Multiple-Family District.
(m) Ten percent of the total window area. See also §
1151.06(e)(5).
(n) In addition to the signage permitted hereinabove for each multiple-
family use, each dwelling unit in such a multiple-family building may
display up to four square feet of noncommercial window signage.
(o) In addition to the signage permitted hereinabove for institutional uses,
the occupant(s) of each room used for dwelling purposes in an institutional
use may display up to four square feet of noncommercial window signage.
 
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.05  MAXIMUM HEIGHT PERMITTED FOR FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   The maximum height of freestanding signs, when permitted, as specified in
this chapter, shall conform to the standards below.
             Residential and Park   Commercial and Special Districts
             Districts
Type of Sign Single-/Two- Multiple- Institutional Commercial Uses Institutional
             Family       Family(a) Uses                          Uses
               Residential and Park   Commercial and Special Districts
               Districts
Type of Sign   Single-/Two- Multiple- Institutional Commercial Institutional
               Family       Family(a) Uses          Uses       Uses
Commercial     N.P.         N.P.      N.P.          (b)        N.P.
identification
Construction   N.P.         6 ft.(d)  6 ft.         6 ft.      6 ft.
Directional    N.P.         4 ft.     4 ft.         4 ft.      4 ft.
Institutional  N.P.         N.P.      6 ft.         N.P.       6 ft.
identification
Instructional  N.P.         (c)       (c)           (c)        (c)
Public         N.P.         (c)       (c)           (c)        (c)
purpose/safety
Residential    N.P.         N.P.      N.P.          N.A.       N.A.
identification
Temporary      4 ft.        4 ft.     4 ft.(e)      N.A.       N.A.
N.A = Not applicable
N.P. = Not permitted
Notes:
(a) These standards shall also apply to multiple-family developments in
commercial or special districts.
(b) See §
1151.06(c) and (d).
(c) No height limitations.
(d) Permitted only in an MF-3 Multiple-Family District.
(e) See §
1151.06(f)(9) for regulations concerning special event signs.
 
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.06  SUPPLEMENTARY SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following sign regulations are in addition to the maximum sign area and
height regulations set forth in §§
1151.04 and
1151.05.
   (a)   Safety/security signs in residential districts. For residential
dwelling units, the following shall be permitted in addition to the permitted
nameplate.
      (1)   On the inside of a window, or on the glass portion of a door, or in
the front yard of a dwelling, one sign not more than 175 square inches in area
containing a brief statement directly relating to the physical safety and
security of the occupants of the premises; examples of such statement being
“Block Watch”, “Beware of Dog” and “Protected by Electronic Security System”,
provided that no sign shall be placed within the minimum front yard provided
for by the Zoning Code for the district in which the dwelling is located.
      (2)   No security sign that is placed within the front yard of a dwelling
shall have a height, including the supporting stake or pole, that exceeds three
feet. A sign may not identify a particular security system by name and/or logo
or otherwise, or include any commercial message. The Architectural Board of
Review shall promulgate and adopt standards relating to the color, design,
material, size, shape and style of lettering of all signs.
      (3)   On the inside of a window or the glass portion of a door, a sign of
not more than 16 square inches in area, containing a basic statement directly
relating to the physical safety and security of the occupants of the premises,
examples of such a statement being “Block Watch”, “Beware of Dog” and
“Protected by Electronic Security System”. Only one sign shall be affixed to
each window or door. The signs authorized by this provision shall be permitted
in addition to the single sign permitted by division (a)(1) above. A sign may
not identify a particular security system by name and/or logo or otherwise or
include any commercial message.
   (b)   Signs in a Park District. For each public park in a Park District, one
freestanding identification sign is permitted for each street frontage. Each
sign shall not exceed the maximum area for institutional identification signs
permitted in Schedule 1151.04. In addition, conditional uses in a Park District
may have further identification signs subject to Planning Commission approval
and the Architectural Board of Review.
   (c)   Freestanding signs for gasoline stations. Freestanding commercial
identification signs are permitted for gasoline stations in compliance with the
following regulations:
      (1)   One freestanding identification sign with a maximum area of 36
square feet per sign face is permitted per zoning lot. The area of the
freestanding sign shall be in addition to the maximum area permitted in §
1151.04;
      (2)   The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall be 16 feet; and
      (3)   No portion of any freestanding sign shall project into the public
right-of-way.
   (d)   Freestanding signs in an S1 Mixed Use District. Freestanding signs
identifying the occupant of individual premises shall not exceed 36 square feet
in area per sign face nor project more than eight feet above the ground, and
shall not be located nearer than 80 feet to the boundary of the S1 District,
nor nearer than 150 feet to directly abutting property under separate ownership
which is in the AA or A Districts. Not more than one freestanding sign
identifying the entire parcel development of the S1 District shall be permitted
for each 500 feet of frontage upon a public street bounding the parcel at the
time the tract was transferred to an S1 Mixed Use District, and such sign shall
not exceed 150 square feet in area on each face.
   (e)   Additional allowances for commercial identification signs.
      (1)   Corner lots. Buildings located on corner lots may have an
identification sign on each street side of the building provided the building
wall area adjoining each street is computed separately for each allowable sign
area.
      (2)   Rear entrances. There may be an additional sign not more than 15
square feet attached to the building at a public entrance not fronting on a
street that opens from a parking lot or having access from a parking lot used
by the public.
      (3)   Building identification for multiple- tenant commercial facilities.
In addition to the permitted sign area, a site with more than one tenant shall
be permitted additional sign area of one-quarter square foot for each linear
foot of building frontage, not to exceed 50 square feet. Such sign area shall
be limited to the identification of the commercial building.
      (4)   Signs for businesses not on the ground floor.
         A.   Each ground floor entrance providing access to tenants located
above or below the ground floor, or ground floor tenants which do not have
frontage on a street or parking lot, shall be permitted one square foot of sign
area for each lineal foot of building frontage devoted to such entrance
provided that at least ten square feet shall be permitted in any case and the
maximum sign area shall be 150 square feet. Such sign shall be considered a
commercial identification sign and shall comply with the regulations specified
in Schedule 1151.04 for such signs. For the purposes of this section, ground
floor entrance shall include that portion of the building frontage on the
ground floor devoted to the lobbies or foyers or entrances providing access to
tenants on other floors.
         B.   For a multi-story retail or office building, each tenant above
the ground floor is permitted one permanent sign to be placed in a window of
the tenant’s space, not to exceed 10% of the window area. In no case shall the
maximum permitted area exceed 20 square feet. These signs may be considered in
addition to the maximum allowable area for identification signs pursuant to
Schedule 1151.04.
Permitted sign area at ground floor entrance = One sq. ft. for each lineal foot
of building frontage devoted to entrance
   * Each entrance permitted at least ten sq. ft.
   * Maximum area = 150 sq. ft.
Permitted window sign = 10% of window area or 20 sq. ft., whichever is greater
      (5)   Window signs. In addition to the allowable identification sign
area, window signs for first floor tenants shall be permitted in compliance
with the following.
         A.   Permanent window signs, which is any window sign displayed for
more than 60 days, shall have a maximum area no greater than 10% of the total
window area. See division (e)(5)B. below. Permanent window signs that exceed
10% shall be calculated as part of the allowable identification sign area.
         B.   Window sign(s) may be aggregated onto one window panel provided
such sign does not cover more than 30% of the window panel on which it is
affixed.
         C.   In total, temporary window signs and permanent window signs shall
be no greater than 20% of the total window area, provided further that the sign
(s) shall not cover more than 30% of any one window panel.
         D.   No window sign for a first floor tenant shall be located or
placed in a window at a height greater than 15 feet above grade.
         E.   Any sign placed inside a display window and which is visible from
the exterior of the window shall be subject to the maximum area regulations set
forth in division (e)(5)C. above.
         F.   No sign shall be painted on a window and no window shall be
otherwise painted unless approved by the Architectural Board of Review.
      (6)   Awning signs. A permitted identification sign may be placed on an
awning, applied to the face of the awning, in compliance with the following.
         A.   In addition to the permitted sign area, address numerals may be
located on an awning provided they do not exceed one and one-half square feet
in area.
         B.   Awnings may be back-lit.
         C.   All awning signs shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Architectural Board of Review.
      (7)   Marquee signs. In addition to the allowable commercial
identification sign area, a marquee sign (including permanent identification
and changeable copy) may be permitted as a conditional use for an auditorium
used for the regular showing of movies, concerts, plays and other similar
productions in compliance with the following.
         A.   The size and shape of the marquee and the area of the marquee
sign shall be determined by the Planning Commission during its review of the
conditional use application.
         B.   The marquee sign shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Architectural Board of Review.
         C.   Flashing or animated lights may be permitted as an integral part
of a marquee sign with approval of both the Planning Commission and the
Architectural Board of Review. Permission shall be granted only after a
specific finding by the Planning Commission that the lights will not adversely
impact residential properties or the general character of the commercial
neighborhood in which the sign is located and a specific finding by the
Architectural Board of Review that the lights will enhance the architectural
qualities of the marquee and the building to which the marquee sign is
attached. In the event flashing or animated lights are permitted, they may be
activated or displayed only from 12:00 p.m. until 10:30 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday and from 12:00 p.m. until Midnight on Friday and Saturday. The Chief
Building Official upon approval of the Planning Commission may issue a special
temporary permit for an extended or different period of time during which the
flashing or animated lights may be activated for a special event.
         D.   These regulations shall apply to an auditorium which is a legal
prior nonconforming use in a C2 District or a permitted use in a C3 District.
   (f)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted in any district in
compliance with the following.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section, temporary signs shall be
permitted for the following purposes:
         A.   To express an opinion on an election, political issue or other
subject, but not to propose or promote a commercial transaction or product
except as provided in divisions (f)(1)B. and (f)(1)C. below;
         B.   To notify the public of the availability of the premises for sale
or viewing (“for sale” or “open house”); and
         C.   To advise the public of the location of a residential personal
property sale (“garage” or “yard” sale).
      (2)   Signs permitted under divisions (f)(1)B. and (f)(1)C. above are
allowed only on the premises which are for sale or at which the sale is
occurring. No more than one “for sale” sign shall be permitted on any premises
at any one time. In addition to the one “for sale” sign, one “yard sale” or
“garage sale” and one “open house” sign may be displayed at the same premises
provided such signs are otherwise in compliance with the terms of this code.
      (3)   Signs may be permitted inside windows, inside the glass portion of
doors and/or in yards. Window and door signs shall be limited to the first
floor unless the dwelling unit or business at which they are being displayed is
located entirely on the second floor or above.
      (4)   Yard signs must be supported by a solid structure, anchored into
the ground. Hanging signs shall not be permitted. Yard signs must be set back
at least 20 feet from the nearest edge of the sidewalk, unless the distance
from the front building line to the nearest edge of the sidewalk is less than
23 feet, in which case the sign shall be placed no more than three feet from
the front building line. All yard signs must be placed parallel to the street
adjoining the yard upon which they are placed. On corner lots, yard signs shall
not be placed in the portion of the front yard which would be covered by the
corner side yard if the corner side yard were extended forward from the front
building line to the front right-of-way line.
      (5)   No sign permitted by this section shall be illuminated in any
manner or contain any blinking or flashing lights or moving parts.
      (6)   All temporary signs must be removed or replaced within 45 days.
Except as otherwise provided herein below, any temporary sign related to a
specific event (primary, general or special election, sporting event, sale of
house and the like) shall be removed within five business days after the event
has concluded. All “yard sale” or “garage sale” signs shall be removed within
12 hours after the sale is concluded. “Open house” signs shall be displayed
only during the times the premises are actually open to the public for viewing.
For the purposes of this division (f)(6), the “sale” of a property shall be
deemed to have “concluded” when title transfers or when the property is
withdrawn from the market, whichever first occurs.
      (7)   Religious and other holiday lights and decorations containing no
commercial message are exempt from the above regulations and shall be permitted
during the appropriate time of year.
      (8)   Freestanding temporary signs may be approved by the Planning
Commission for a conditionally permitted use in a Park District.
      (9)   Freestanding temporary signs for institutional uses in a
residential, commercial or special district for the purpose of announcing and
identifying a special event may be approved by the Planning Commission. Such
signs shall be displayed for a maximum of three days. Subsequent approval of
such temporary sign may be approved by the Zoning Administrator provided the
size and placement of the sign are the same as previously approved.
      (10)   If, due to the topography, existing foliage, or other similar
condition existing as to a particular property, conformance with the setback,
size and height restrictions set forth in this chapter would impair the
visibility of a temporary sign as observed from the street, then the Zoning
Administrator may grant exceptions to the size and/or location regulations. In
determining whether to grant an exception, the sole standard to be used by the
Zoning Administrator is the visibility of the sign and no sign shall exceed the
height, location or distance which is reasonably necessary to render the sign
visible when observed from the street. In no event shall the Zoning
Administrator waive the maximum sign area.
      (11)   Freestanding temporary signs shall not be permitted in commercial
districts.
   (g)   Construction signs. A construction sign shall be permitted only in
compliance with the following.
      (1)   There shall be not more than one construction sign per zoning lot.
      (2)   A construction sign for an institutional use in a residential
district shall identify only the name of the organization, name of the building
and street address, and shall be free of any commercial advertising.
      (3)   A permit for a construction sign shall be issued and the sign shall
be erected on the lot only during the period of time that the building project
is under construction and while a valid building permit is in force. Such sign
shall be removed within 14 days of the commencement of the intended use.
      (4)   A construction sign shall be designed in conformance with all
applicable building codes and constructed with materials which are durable for
the intended life of the sign as determined by the Building Commissioner.
      (5)   Application for a construction sign may be submitted and reviewed
simultaneously with the associated construction project. If an application for
a construction sign is submitted separately, the application shall be reviewed
and approved by the Architectural Board of Review.
   (h)   Noncommercial message. Any sign authorized by this chapter is
permitted to contain a noncommercial message in lieu of other messages,
provided that such sign is displayed by the property owner or tenant without
compensation.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.07  PROJECTING SIGN PLAN.
   No projecting sign shall be constructed, erected or maintained on any lot in
the city except when approved as part of a projecting sign plan according to
the requirements and procedures contained in this section.
   (a)   Projecting sign plan required. In a commercial or special district, a
majority of business property owners of six or more contiguous zoning lots or
the owner(s) of zoning lots which comprise a minimum of six store fronts may
file with the Planning Commission and the Architectural Board of Review a
Projecting Sign Plan for such zoning lots.
   (b)   Area and height regulations. Projecting signs shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Only one projecting sign per first floor tenant shall be permitted.
      (2)   The area of a projecting sign shall not exceed six square feet per
sign face and shall be part of the total allowable identification sign area
permitted in Schedule
1151.04.
      (3)   The lowest part of the sign shall be a minimum of ten feet above
ground level and shall not project out more than four feet from the wall of the
building.
      (4)   A projecting sign may be suspended from an architectural canopy
provided the sign does not extend beyond such canopy.
   (c)   Attachment of projecting signs. Complete information regarding the
proposed method of support and attachment of projecting signs shall be
submitted with the application for the permit. No staples or nails shall be
used to secure any projecting sign to any building or other structure. No part
of a projecting sign shall be supported from an unbraced parapet wall.
   (d)   Elements of projecting sign plan. The projecting sign plan shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Building sections and elevations at an appropriate scale;
      (2)   Computation of the maximum total sign area and the maximum area of
signs for individual store fronts or building units affected by the plan;
      (3)   An accurate indication on the elevations/section drawings of the
location of each existing and proposed sign; and
      (4)   The plan shall specify standards for consistency among all signs on
the zoning lots included in the plan with regard to: color scheme; lettering or
graphic style; materials; location on the building; sign proportions; framing;
and method of attachment.
   (e)   Consent and compliance. The projecting sign plan shall be endorsed by
a majority of the property owners or business tenants of the lots encompassed
by the plan, and the majority of the owners and tenants shall commit to
installation of a conforming projecting sign within 12 months from the time the
plan is approved.
   (f)   Architectural review of individual signs. Once the plan is approved by
the Planning Commission and the Architectural Board of Review, the subsequent
erection or alteration of any individual projecting sign shall be approved by
the Architectural Board of Review if such sign is not specifically approved as
part of the projecting sign plan.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.08  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (a)   In addition to assuring compliance with the numerical standards of
these regulations, the Zoning Administrator and the Architectural Board of
Review, when approving signs, shall consider the proposed general design,
arrangement, texture, material, colors, lighting placement and the
appropriateness of the proposed sign in relationship to other signs and the
other structures both on the premises and in the surrounding areas, and only
approve signs which are consistent with the intent, purposes, standards and
criteria of the sign regulations.
   (b)   Specific standards for determining the appropriateness of the sign
shall include, but not be limited, to the following conditions:
      (1)   The lettering shall be large enough to be easily read from the
public street but not out of scale with the building, site or street scape;
      (2)   The number of items (letters, symbols, shapes) shall be consistent
with the amount of information which can be comprehended by the viewer, reflect
simplicity, avoid visual clutter and improve legibility;
      (3)   The shape of the sign shall not create visual clutter;
      (4)   Signs shall have an appropriate contrast and be designed with a
limited number of, and with the harmonious use of, colors. Signs, if seen in
series, shall have a continuity of design with the style of sign generally
consistent throughout the building or block. Continuity of design means
uniformity of background colors or harmonious use of a limited range of
complementary background colors;
      (5)   The size, style and location of the sign shall be appropriate to
the activity of the site as prescribed elsewhere in these regulations;
      (6)   The sign shall complement the building and adjacent buildings by
being designed and placed to enhance the architecture. The sign shall reflect
the primary purpose of identifying the name and type of establishment;
      (7)   The sign should be consolidated into a minimum number of elements;
      (8)   Instructional signs shall contain the minimum information and the
minimum area necessary to convey the message and instruct the viewer in the
safe and efficient use of the facility;
      (9)   A sign should be constructed with a minimum of different types of
material so as to provide a consistent overall appearance;
      (10)   No part of a sign shall project above the parapet line;
      (11)   All signs in commercial and special districts may be illuminated
provided that light sources to illuminate such signs shall be shielded from all
adjacent residential buildings and streets, and shall not be of such brightness
so as to cause glare hazardous to pedestrians or motorists, or as to cause
reasonable objection from adjacent residential districts;
      (12)   No flashing or moving parts shall be permitted for any sign or
advertising display within the city except when conditionally permitted as part
of a marquee sign pursuant to §
1151.06(e)(7);
      (13)   No paper posters shall be applied directly to the wall or building
or pole or other support. Letters or pictures in the form of advertising that
are printed or painted directly on the wall of a building are prohibited,
except for window signs pursuant to this chapter and conditionally permitted
murals;
      (14)   No sign or advertising device shall be permitted which, by color,
location or design, resembles or conflicts with traffic-control signs or
devices;
      (15)   Pennants, banners, streamers, whirling devices, bare strings of
light bulbs, balloons and other similar devices are prohibited except for
banners and pennants when part of public information signs installed by the
city pursuant to §
1151.02(b);
      (16)   All signs shall be designed, constructed and erected in a
professional and workmanlike manner, in conformance with all applicable
building codes, and with materials which are durable for the intended life of
the sign;
      (17)   For any sign which projects above a public right-of-way, the sign
owner shall obtain and maintain in force liability insurance for such sign in
such form and in such amount as the Law Director may reasonably determine.
Proof of such insurance shall be required prior to obtaining a permit; and
      (18)   Freestanding signs shall be designed and located so as not to
obstruct a driver’s visibility entering or exiting a lot or to be a safety
hazard to pedestrians or vehicles, and shall comply with any requirements set
forth for maintaining clear sight at an intersection.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.09  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   A permit shall not be required for the following signs when such signs
are in full compliance with these sign regulations:
      (1)   A safety/security sign in a residential district;
      (2)   A nameplate sign in any district; or
      (3)   A temporary window sign.
   (b)   A permit is required to erect any sign not exempt in division (a)
above.
   (c)   Approval from the Architectural Board of Review shall be required for
the following signs:
      (1)   Multiple-family and conditional uses in residential districts,
including:
         A.   Residential or institutional identification signs; and
         B.   Instructional signs that exceed ten square feet or that face the
street and are within 25 feet of the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Commercial districts and special districts, including:
         A.   Commercial identification signs;
         B.   Freestanding signs (when permitted);
         C.   Projecting signs;
         D.   Instructional signs that exceed ten square feet or that face the
street and are within 25 feet of the public right-of-way; and
         E.   Permanent window signs including any elements that are painted on
the window.
   (d)   The city shall review and approve all public signs erected in the
public right-of-way by or on behalf of a governmental body.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.10  MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   The property owner, owner of the sign, tenant and agent are required
to maintain the sign in a condition fit for the intended use and in good
repair, and such person or persons have a continuing obligation to comply with
all Building Code requirements.
   (b)   A sign in good repair shall be free of peeling or faded paint, shall
not be stained, show uneven soiling or rust streaks; shall not have chipped,
cracked, broken, bent letters, panels or framing; shall not otherwise show
deterioration; and shall comply with all other applicable maintenance standards
of the city.
   (c)   If the sign is deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be not in good
repair or in an unsafe condition, such sign shall be considered an unsafe
building and structure and all city regulations applicable for the repair or
removal of such sign shall apply.
   (d)   Whenever any sign, either conforming to these regulations, or
nonconforming, is required to be removed for the purpose of repair, relettering
or repainting, the same may be done without a permit, or any payment of fees,
provided there is no alteration or enlargement to the structure or the mounting
of the sign itself and the sign is accessory to a legally permitted or
nonconforming use.
   (e)   Signs which no longer serve the purpose for which they were intended,
which have been abandoned or which are not maintained in accordance with this
chapter and other regulations of the city are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and shall be removed by the owner within 30 days of the time such
sign becomes obsolete, abandoned or not properly maintained or such sign will
be removed by the city at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1151.11  ALTERATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (a)   Consistent with the purposes of this Zoning Code, every graphic or
other sign in violation of any provision of this chapter shall only be removed,
altered or replaced so as to conform with the provisions of this code. Any sign
which was in compliance with these regulations immediately prior to the
effective date of this code, but, on the effective date of this code or any
amendments thereto, is not in compliance with the regulations herein shall be
deemed nonconforming.
   (b)   Nonconforming signs shall be removed and any subsequent modification
or replacement (excluding routine maintenance pursuant to §
1151.10) shall conform to all requirements of these regulations:
      (1)   When more than 50% of the value of the sign has been destroyed or
been removed;
      (2)   When the use for which the nonconforming sign is accessory, is
vacant for 90 consecutive days; or
      (3)   Following five years from the date of the adoption of these
regulations, or five years from the date of any amendment to these regulations
which made the sign nonconforming.
   (c)   (1)   A nonconforming sign shall not be replaced, altered, modified or
reconstructed, other than to comply with these regulations, except when the
existing use changes its name as a result of new ownership, or for any other
reason and when such replacement sign may be accomplished without any
alteration or changes to the structure, framing, erection or location of the
sign unless such changes conform to these regulations.
      (2)   Any proposed replacement, alteration, modification or
reconstruction of a nonconforming sign shall be approved by the Architectural
Board of Review.
   (d)   The Planning Commission may permit certain nonconforming signs to
continue when, because of unique design features or construction qualities, the
Commission determines the sign to be architecturally or historically
significant. The Planning Commission shall approve such continuation in
accordance with the conditional use procedures set forth in Chapter 1105 et
seq. The continuation of such sign must also be approved by the Architectural
Board of Review.
(Ord. 165-99, passed 12-21-1999)
PART 13:  BUILDING CODE
         Title
            
1.   STANDARDS ADOPTED
            
3.   LOCAL PROVISIONS
            
5.   HOUSING CODE
            
9.   BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
            
11.   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE CODE
TITLE 1:  STANDARDS ADOPTED
      Chapter
         
1301   Ohio Building Code
         
1305   National Electrical Code
         
1308   Ohio Residential Code for One-, Two- and Three-Family Dwellings
         
1309   International Property Maintenance Code
CHAPTER 1301:  OHIO BUILDING CODE
Section
1301.01   Adoption
1301.02   Purpose
1301.03   Scope
1301.04   Compliance
1301.05   Existing structures
1301.06   Violations
1301.07   Stop work order
1301.08   Conflict
1301.09   Enforcement
1301.10   Administrative amendments
1301.11   Excavation amendments
1301.12   Licensing contractors
1301.13   Mini-marts and service stations
1301.14   Waiver of building permit fees or penalties
 
1301.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Application, see Ohio R.C. 3781.06, 3781.10(E), 3781.11(A)
   Authorization by Board of Building Standards, see Ohio R.C. 3781.12
   Dead bolt locks in apartment buildings, see Ohio R.C. 3781.103
   Enforcement, see Ohio R.C. 3781.03, 3781.031, 3781.10(E), 3781.102, 3781.19
   Final jurisdiction, see Ohio R.C. 3781.04
   Removal of unsafe structures, see Ohio R.C. 715.26(B), 715.261
   Safety standards for refuse containers, see Ohio R.C. 3791.21
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Smoke detection system for apartments and condominiums, see Ohio R.C.
3781.104
   Submission of plans, see Ohio R.C. 3791.04
   Use of public buildings by handicapped persons, see Ohio R.C. 3781.111
§ 1301.01  ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the municipality, the Ohio Building Code (OBC)
and related codes as adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards,
Department of Industrial Relations, effective July 1, 2007, and as identified
and published in Division 4101:1 et seq. of the Ohio Administrative Code (OAC).
§ 1301.02  PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purpose of the state’s Building Code is to establish uniform
minimum requirements for the erection, construction, repair, alteration, and
maintenance of buildings, including construction of industrialized units.
   (b)   Such requirements shall relate to the conservation of energy, safety
and sanitation of buildings for their intended use and occupancy with
consideration for the following.
      (1)   Performance. Establish such requirements, in terms of performance
objectives, for the use intended.
      (2)   Extent of use. Permit, to the fullest extent feasible, the use of
materials and technical methods, devices and improvements which tend to reduce
the cost of construction without affecting minimum requirements for the health,
safety and security of the occupants of buildings without preferential
treatment of types or classes of materials or products or methods of
construction.
      (3)   Standardization.
         A.   To encourage, so far as may be practicable, the standardization
of construction practices, methods, equipment, material and techniques,
including methods employed to produce industrialized units.
         B.   The rules of the Board of Building Standards and proceedings
shall be liberally construed in order to promote its purpose. When the Building
Official finds that the proposed design is a reasonable interpretation of the
provisions of this code, it shall be approved. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Building Official pursuant to § 118 of the state’s Building
Code shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
(OBC 101.3)
§ 1301.03  SCOPE.
   (a)   The provisions of the state’s Building Code shall apply to the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of
every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such
buildings or structures. No building or its equipment or accessories, to which
the rules of the Board of Building Standards apply shall be erected,
constructed, or installed, except in conformity with the rules of the Board.
   (b)   Exceptions include the following:
      (1)   Detached one-, two- and three-family dwellings and structures
incidental to those dwellings which are not constructed as industrialized units
shall comply with local residential codes, if any, adopted by the authority
having jurisdiction. This exception does not include the energy provisions
required in “Chapter 13, Energy Efficiency” of the OBC (see Ohio R.C. §
3781.06);
      (2)   Buildings owned by and used for a function of the United States
government;
      (3)   Buildings or structures which are incident to the use for
agricultural purposes of the land on which said buildings or structures are
located, provided such buildings or structures are not used in the business of
retail trade; for the purposes of this section, a building or structure is not
considered used in the business of retail trade if 50% or more of the gross
income received from sales of products in the building or structure by the
owner or operator is from sales of products produced or raised in a normal crop
year on farms owned or operated by the seller. (See Ohio R.C. §§ 3781.06 and
3781.061);
      (4)   Agricultural labor camps;
      (5)   Type A or Type B family day-care homes;
      (6)   Buildings or structures which are designed, constructed and
maintained in accordance with federal standards and regulations and are used
primarily for federal and state military purposes where the U.S. Secretary of
Defense, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 18233(a)(1) and 18237, has acquired by
purchase, lease or transfer, and constructs, expands, rehabilitates, or
corrects and equips such buildings or structures as he or she determines to be
necessary to carry out the purposes of Chapter 1803 of the U.S.C., being 10
U.S.C. §§ 18231 et seq.; and
      (7)   Manufactured homes constructed under 24 C.F.R. Part 3280,
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.
(OBC 101.2)
§ 1301.04  COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   No owner or any other person shall construct, erect, build or equip
any building or structure to which the state’s Building Code is applicable, or
make any addition thereto or alteration thereof, except in case of repairs for
maintenance without affecting the construction, sanitation, safety or other
vital feature of such building or structure, without complying with this
chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or the state’s Building Code, or fail
to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. §§ 3791.01, 3791.02)
   (b)   No architect, builder, engineer, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman or employee shall violate or assist in
violating this chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or the state’s
Building Code, or fail to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. §§ 3791.01, 3791.03)
   (c)   No owner or any other person shall proceed with the construction,
erection, alteration or equipment of any building or structure to which the
state’s Building Code is applicable without complying with this chapter and the
plan and specification submission and processing requirements of the
municipality, and until plans or drawings, specifications and data have been
approved, or the industrialized unit has been inspected at the point of origin.
(R.C. § 3791.04)
§ 1301.05  EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (a)   The provisions of Chapter 34 of the state’s Building Code shall
control the alteration, repair, addition and change of occupancy of any
existing structure.
   (b)   The occupancy of any structure currently existing on the date of
adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change provided
the alleged occupancy can be shown to have existed for more than two years and
there are no orders of the Building Official pending, no evidence of fraud, or
no serious safety or sanitation hazard.
   (c)   Buildings constructed in accordance with plans which have been
approved prior to the effective date of this code are existing buildings.
(OBC 102.6)
§ 1301.06  VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Adjudication orders required before legal proceedings. Before the
municipality attempts to enforce Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or any rules
adopted pursuant thereto, by any remedy, civil or criminal, it shall issue an
adjudication order within the meaning of Ohio R.C. §§ 119.06 to 119.13 or a
stop work order as provided in §
1301.07. Every adjudication order shall:
      (1)   Cite the law or rules directly involved and shall specify what
appliances, site preparations, additions, or alterations to structures, plans,
materials, assemblages or procedures are necessary for the same to comply with
Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791; and
      (2)   Include notice to the party of the procedure for appeal and right
to a hearing if requested within 30 days of the mailing of the notice. The
notice shall also inform the party that at the hearing he or she may be
represented by counsel, present his or her arguments or contentions orally or
in writing and present evidence and examine witnesses appearing for or against
him or her.
   (b)   Notice of violation. The Building Official is authorized to serve a
notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the erection,
construction, alteration, extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition or
occupancy of a building or structure. When the Building Official finds that
work or equipment is contrary to approved construction documents and the rules
of the Board of Building Standards, the Building Official shall send a notice
in writing to the owner of said building or the owner’s agent which shall state
where and in what respect the work or equipment does not conform to the
approved plans for same and the rules of the Board. The notice shall specify a
reasonable period of time in which to conform to said plans or the rules of the
Board. Before any work may continue on the construction, erection, alteration,
or equipment of any building for which the approval is invalid, the owner of
the building shall resubmit the plans or drawings and specifications for
approval as required under § 105.3 of the state’s Building Code.
   (c)   Prosecution of violation. Upon the issuance of any order provided for
in this section or §
1301.07, the person receiving an order shall cease work upon the site
preparations or structure to be constructed, or in the case of an
industrialized unit, the installation of the unit, or shall cease using the
appliance, materials, assemblages or manufactured product identified in the
order until such time as the appeal provided for in accordance with the
provisions of Ohio R.C. § 3781.19 and all appeals from such hearing have been
completed, or the order has been released.
(OBC 113)
§ 1301.07  STOP WORK ORDER.
   (a)   Authority. Whenever the Building Official finds any work regulated by
this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code
or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Building Official is authorized to
issue a stop work order whenever the Building Official finds, after inspection,
that the site preparations or structure to be constructed, or in the case of an
industrialized unit, the installation of the unit, or that the use of an
appliance, materials, assemblage or manufactured product does not comply with
the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or the rules adopted
pursuant thereto. The effect of such an order shall be limited to the matter
specified in the order.
   (b)   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given
to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent and the person
doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
   (c)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition. Failure to cease
work after receipt of a stop work order is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(OBC 114)
§ 1301.08  CONFLICT.
   (a)   General. Where, in any specific case, different sections of the
state’s Building Code specify different materials, methods of construction or
other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a
conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall be applicable.
   (b)   Other laws. The provisions of the state’s Building Code shall not be
deemed to nullify any provisions of state or federal law. The municipality,
under Ohio R.C. § 3781.01, may make further and additional regulations, not in
conflict with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791 or with the rules of the Board
of Building Standards. However, under Ohio R.C. § 3781.12, approval by the
Board of Building Standards of any fixture, device, material, system, assembly
or product of a manufacturing process, or method or manner of construction or
installation shall constitute approval for their use anywhere in the state. The
rules of the Board of Building Standards shall supersede and govern any order,
standard or rule of the Division of the Fire Marshal or Industrial Compliance
in the Department of Commerce, and Department of Health and of counties and
townships, in all cases where such orders, standards or rules are in conflict
with the rules of the Board of Building Standards, except that rules adopted
and orders issued by the Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743
prevail in the event of a conflict.
(OBC 102)
§ 1301.09  ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   General. The Building Official shall enforce provisions of the rules
of the Board of Building Standards and of Ohio R.C. Chapters 3781 and 3791,
relating to construction, arrangement, and the erection of buildings or parts
thereof as defined in the rules of the Board in accordance with the
certification except as follows.
      (1)   Fire. The Fire Marshal or Fire Chief shall enforce all provisions
of the rules of the Board relating to fire prevention.
      (2)   Health. The Department of Health, or the Boards of Health, the
Division of Industrial Compliance of the Department of Commerce, or the
municipal Department of Building Inspection shall enforce such provisions
relating to sanitary construction.
      (3)   Engineering. The Department of the City Engineer, in cities having
such departments, has complete supervision and regulation of the entire
sewerage and drainage system of the city, including the house drain and the
house sewer and all laterals draining into the street sewers. The department
shall have control and supervision of the installation and construction of all
drains and sewers that become a part of the sewerage system of the city and
shall issue all the necessary permits and licenses for the construction and
installation of all house drains and house sewers and of all other lateral
drains that empty into the main sewers. Such Department shall keep a permanent
record of the installation and location of every drain and sewerage system of
the city.
      (4)   No officer exempted. This section does not exempt any officer or
department from the obligation of enforcing any provision of the rules of the
Board.
      (5)   Interpretations. The Building Official shall have the authority to
render interpretations of the state’s Building Code and to adopt policies and
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this code.
   (b)   Applications and approvals. The Building Official shall receive
applications, require the review of submitted construction documents and issue
plan approvals for the erection, and alteration, demolition and moving of
buildings and structures, inspect the premises for which such approvals have
been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (c)   Notices and orders. The Building Official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code. When the Building
Official finds that work or equipment is contrary to approved plans therefor
and the rules of the Board, the Building Official shall send a notice in
writing to the owner of said building or the owner’s agent. The notice shall
state where and in what respect the work or equipment does not conform to the
approved plans for same and the rules of the Board, and specify a reasonable
period of time in which to conform to said plans or the rules of the Board.
   (d)   Inspections. If the plans for the erection, construction, repair,
alteration, relocating or equipment of a building are subject to inspection by
the Building Official, under § 109 of the state’s Building Code, the Building
Official shall cause to be made such inspections, investigations and
determinations as are necessary to determine whether or not the work which has
been performed and the installations which have been made are in conformity
with the approved plans and to safety and sanitation, except special
inspections required under § 1704 of the state’s Building Code.
   (e)   Identification. The Building Department personnel shall show, when
requested, proper identification when entering structures or premises in the
performance of duties under this code.
   (f)   Right of entry. The Building Official, or Building Official’s
designee, is authorized to enter a structure or premises at reasonable times to
inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code, provided that
credentials are presented to the occupant and that entry is requested and
obtained. Where permission to enter has not been obtained, is denied or the
Building Official has probable cause to believe that there exists in a
structure or upon a premises a condition which is a serious hazard the Building
Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
   (g)   Department records. The Building Official shall keep official records
of applications received, certificate of plan approval issued, notices and
orders issued, certificate of occupancy, and other such records required by the
rules of the Board of Building Standards. Such information shall be retained in
the official permanent record for each project. One set of approved
construction documents shall be retained by the Building Official for a period
of not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as
required by document retention regulations.
   (h)   Liability. Liability of certified Building Department personnel for
any tortuous act will be determined by state courts to the applicable
provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2744.
(OBC 104)
§ 1301.10  ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   Chapter I of the state’s Building Code is enacted to read as follows.
100.1 Plans and specifications.
   When required by the City Building Inspector, referred to herein as the
Chief Enforcement Official, two or more complete sets of plans and
specifications shall accompany each application. Plans shall be drawn to scale
with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed.
Such plans and specifications together shall contain information sufficient to
indicate that the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this Code and
all other applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. The Chief
Enforcement Official may require additional details of the structure or
equipment and such stress computations and other data as the Chief Enforcement
Official may deem necessary for an intelligent understanding of the proposed
work and installation. Such information shall be specific and this Building
Code shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term “legal” or
its equivalent be used as a substitute for specific information. With each set
of plans and specifications, the applicant shall furnish the address of the
work, and the name and address of the owner and the name and address of the
person who prepared the plans. When required by the Chief Enforcement Official,
there shall be submitted a plot plan in a form and size designated by the Chief
Enforcement Official for filing permanently with the permit record, drawn to
scale, with all dimensions showing accurately the size and exact location of
all proposed new construction and the relation to other existing or proposed
buildings or structures on the same lot and other buildings or structures on
adjoining property within fifteen feet of the property lines. Plans for new
buildings or plans describing structural changes or work affecting the public
health or safety shall be prepared and bear the seal of a registered architect
or professional engineer. The Chief Enforcement Official shall have the
obligation to examine each application for a permit, the plans and
specifications and other material contained therein, and to approve or
disapprove such application within a reasonable period of time.
101.0 Compliance with Plans.
   No building, equipment or its appurtenances to which this Building Code is
applicable shall be erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, relocated,
demolished, repaired or otherwise renovated except in conformity with plans
approved by the Chief Enforcement Official, and in conformance with the
provisions of this Building Code.
102.0 Permits.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect construct, enlarge, alter, repair
or relocate or demolish a building or other structure or install any equipment
or other appurtenances, the installation of which is regulated by this Building
Code, or cause the same to be done without first making application to the
Chief Enforcement Official and obtaining a permit therefor, unless this
Building Code specifically provides that such work may be done without a
permit. Permits shall be issued by the Chief Enforcement Official when a permit
application has been approved and when the required fees have been paid.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it
shall have been commenced within six months after its issuance or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months
after the time the work is commenced provided, that for good cause, one or more
extensions of time for periods not exceeding 90 days each may be allowed in
writing by the Chief Enforcement Official. No building permit shall be issued
unless applied for by the owner of the premises for which such permit is to be
issued or his or her agent duly authorized in writing by the owner of the
premises. The Building Department shall not issue any building permit until the
contractor and subcontractor have registered their name with the Income Tax
Administrator. The Chief Enforcement Official shall note upon the permit that
the Income Tax Administrator has been advised as to the name and address of the
contractor and subcontractor for whom the building permit is being issued and
other information required pursuant to §
191.0706 including the Federal Employer’s identification numbers in accordance
with Chapter 191 of the codified ordinances of the city.
103.0 Responsibility for compliance.
   The owner, as defined in this Building Code, shall be responsible for
compliance with all of the provisions of this Building Code, except where the
responsibility therefor is specifically placed elsewhere.
104.0 Notice of violation.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief Enforcement Official or other city department heads
or their representatives shall find any building or premises, or any part
thereof, to be in violation of the provisions of this Building Code, the Chief
Enforcement Official shall give or cause to be given or mailed to the owner of
such building or premises a written notice stating the violations therein. The
notice shall order the owner, within a stated reasonable time, to repair,
improve or correct the listed violations or demolish the building or premises
as ordered. Such delivery or mailing shall be deemed legal service of notice.
   (B)   If the person to whom a notice of violation is addressed cannot be
found within the county after reasonable and diligent search, then notice may
be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such person, and a copy
of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building or
premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed legal
service of notice.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the requirement of notice provided herein, when in the
opinion of the Chief Enforcement Official the condition of a building or
premises, or part thereof constitutes an immediate hazard to human life or
health or when a prior violation notice has been sent to the owner for the same
or a similar violation, then no such notice of violation has been sent to the
owner for the same or a similar violation, then no such notice of violation
need be given to the owner of such building.
105.0 Noncompliance with notice.
   (A)   Whenever the owner or occupant of a building or premises fails,
neglects or refuses to comply with any notice of the Chief Enforcement
Official, the Chief Enforcement Official may issue a notice to such owner or
occupant ordering the building or premises, or part thereof to be vacated, or
he or she may inform the Director of Law of the circumstances and request the
Director of Law to institute an appropriate action at law to compel compliance
or both. Such notice shall be delivered, mailed or posted in the same manner as
provided in § 104.0.
   (B)   Whenever the owner or occupant of a building or premises fails,
neglects or refuses to comply with a notice to vacate issued by the Chief
Enforcement Official, the Chief Enforcement Official may request the Mayor to
enforce the orders of such notice of vacation and cause the building or
premises, or part thereof, to be vacated in accordance with the terms of such
notice.
   (C)   Whenever the owner of a building fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with a notice to demolish such building, or part thereof, or a secondary or
appurtenant structure, issued in accordance with the provisions of this
Building Code, and when such building is determined by the Chief Enforcement
Official to constitute a public nuisance in that it is injurious to the public
health, safety or welfare, the Chief Enforcement Official may request the
Director of Law to prepare legislation stating such determination and
authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the demolition of such
building, or part thereof, or to take such other action as may be necessary to
abate the nuisance. The Chief Enforcement Official shall further give notice
informing the owner of such determination and action. Such notice shall be
given in the same manner as provided in § 104.0.
106.0 Cases of emergency.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Chief Enforcement Official, the condition of
a building or premises, or part thereof, constitutes an immediate hazard to
human life or health, he or she shall declare a case of emergency and shall
order immediate vacation of the building or premises, or part thereof.
107.0 Placards.
   Whenever the Chief Enforcement Official orders a building or premises, or
part thereof, to be vacated, he or she shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such building or premises, or part thereof, a placard ordering such
vacation. No person shall deface or remove such placard until the repairs or
demolition is completed without written permission of the Chief Enforcement
Official. No person shall enter or use any building or premises so placarded
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing the
building or premises.
108.0 Expenses and costs.
   Any expenses or costs incurred under the provisions for demolition contained
in this Building Code shall be paid by the owner of the building or premises.
   If such expenses and costs of demolition are not paid by the owner of the
building or premises within 30 days after written notice from the city to do
so, such expenses and costs may be recovered by an action at law or may be
assessed against the lands of the owner and shall become a lien thereon, and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law for assessments.
§ 1301.11  EXCAVATION AMENDMENTS.
   Section 3313 entitled Demolition and Excavation of Chapter 33 of the state’s
Building Code herein adopted shall be added to read as follows.
3313.1 Protection.
   All excavations shall be so protected by the owner making them or causing
them to be made, that adjoining soil shall not cave in by reason of its own
weight, and shall be properly guarded and protected so as to prevent the same
from becoming dangerous to life and limb. Permanent excavations are to be
protected by retaining walls with guard fences or rails.
3313.2 Damage by excavation.
   If the owner or possessor of any lot or land digs, or causes to be dug, any
cellar, pit, vault or excavation to a greater depth than nine feet below the
curb of the street or streets on which such lot or land abuts or, if there be
no curb, below the established grade of the street or streets on which such lot
or land abuts, or if there be no curb or established grade below the surface of
the adjoining lots, and by such excavation causes any damage to any wall, house
or other building upon the lots adjoining thereto, such owner or possessor
shall be liable, in a civil action to the party injured, to the full amount of
the damage aforesaid. When there is a curb or established grade, the depth of
such excavation, at any point thereof, shall be measured downward from the
pitchline projected laterally over the lot or land from and between the
corresponding points in the nearest curb or established grade opposite the ends
of such pitch line.
3313.3 Depth of excavation allowable.
   Such owner or possessor may dig or cause to be dug any such cellar, pit or
excavation to the full depth of any foundation wall of any building upon the
adjoining lot or lots or to the full depth of nine feet below the established
grade of the street or streets whereon such lot abuts, without reference to the
depth of adjoining foundation walls, without incurring the liability prescribed
in this Building Code, and may, on 30 days’ notice to adjoining owners, grade
and improve the surface of any lot to correspond with the established grade of
the street, streets or alley upon which such lot or land abuts, without
incurring liability.
3313.4 Excavations below footings.
   Excavations in any building for the foundations of any machinery or for any
cistern or pit of any kind, or for a tunnel or any sewer, water or other pipe
line running parallel with a foundation wall or the side of any supporting
pier, shall not be dug below the bottom of the footings of such wall or pier
when such excavations extend within one foot of the angle of repose or natural
slope of the foundation soil underneath such footings. The excavations for the
foundations of any vibratory machinery, engine or dynamo shall not be made
within one foot of the footings of any wall or pier.
(Ord. 7316, passed 7-17-1979)
§ 1301.12  LICENSING CONTRACTORS.
   Contractors performing work governed by the state’s Building Code shall be
registered as provided by Chapter 1381.
(Ord. 7316, passed 7-17-1979)
§ 1301.13  MINI-MARTS AND SERVICE STATIONS.
   Notwithstanding §
1301.01, and any other provision in the state’s Building Code, the city hereby
makes the following exceptions and imposes the following minimum requirements
for all new mini-marts and gasoline service stations and for all existing mini-
marts and existing gasoline service stations undergoing substantial renovation
as measured by 50% or greater of the value of such renovation.
   (a)   At every such mercantile establishment as described or referred to
hereinabove, there shall be a minimum of two separate washrooms to serve public
patrons; one such washroom to serve male patrons, and another such washroom to
serve female patrons irrespective to the limited number of customers actually
served, or contemplated, and regardless to the minimal size or square feet of
such mercantile establishments.
   (b)   Every new mini-mart and new gasoline service station, and every
existing mini-mart and existing service station undergoing substantial
renovation as measured by 50% or greater of the value of such renovation, is
hereby required to have available at the premises for public use during
reasonable business hours, at least one air pump which shall be accessible to
the public, and operational.
§ 1301.14  WAIVER OF BUILDING PERMIT FEES OR PENALTIES.
   Council hereby requires the city’s Chief Building Official, through the
Mayor, to refer any and all requests for waiver of building permit fees or
penalties to City Council for approval or other action. (Ord. 32-00, passed 3-
8-2000)
§ 1301.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or any code adopted herein or
fails to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than six months or both. Each day during which
noncompliance or a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The
municipality may institute injunction proceedings in Common Pleas Court to
abate the nuisance of failure to cease work after receipt of a stop work order
as referred to in §
1301.06(b).
CHAPTER 1305:  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
1305.01   Code adopted
1305.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electrical fees, see §
1310.03
   Publication of electrical codes, see CHTR.
108
§ 1305.01  CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of the practical safeguarding
of persons, buildings and dwellings and their contents from hazards arising
from the use of electricity for light, heat, power, radio, signaling and for
other purposes, that certain code known as the National Electrical Code, 2005
edition, excluding Chapter 80 “Administration”, recommended by the National
Fire Protection Association. The same is hereby adopted within the city and is
incorporated herein as if fully set out at length.
   (b)   A copy of the National Electrical Code adopted herein shall be
maintained on file with the Building Department. Information about where to
purchase copies will be made available to any interested parties.
(Ord. 160-05, passed 10-5-2005)
§ 1305.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each day’s violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 1308:  OHIO RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE-,
TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
Section
1308.01   Code adopted
1308.02   Work started without a permit
Cross-reference:
   State to enforce industrialized unit regulations, see Ohio R.C. 3781.06,
3781.10
§ 1308.01  CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Residential Code of the state, as promulgated by the state’s Board
of Building Standards in Chapter 4101:8 of the Ohio Administrative Code, shall
apply and be enforced within the limits of the city pursuant to any and all
modifications or alterations set forth in the Residential Code of the state.
   (b)   A copy of the Residential Code of the state adopted herein shall be
maintained on file with the Building Department. Information about where to
purchase copies will be made available to any interested parties.
§ 1308.02  WORK STARTED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Where work, for which a permit is required by this chapter, is started prior
to obtaining such permit, the fees required by the permit shall be tripled but
the payment of such triple fee shall not relieve any person from fully
complying with the requirements of this chapter or any other law of the state
or ordinance of this city. The triple fee shall be in addition to a penalty of
$100 provided by law.
(Ord. 161-05, passed 10-5-2005)
CHAPTER 1309:  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
1309.01   Code adopted
1309.02   Amendments
 
1309.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Publication of technical codes, see CHTR.
108
§ 1309.01  CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if set out at
length herein, for the purpose of establishing minimum regulations governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures to
ensure that they are safe, sanitary and fit for human occupation, that certain
code known as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2000 edition,
recommended by Building Officials and Code Administrators International Inc.
The Building Inspector has copies on file for review or purchase by the public.
§ 1309.02  AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code adopted herein is hereby
modified in the manner respectively indicated: Article 1 Administration and
Enforcement (deleted).
§ 1309.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
TITLE 3:  LOCAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
1310   Building Fees
         
1311   Board of Building Code Appeals
         
1313   Abatement of Nuisances and Demolition of Structures
         
1315   Criminal Activity Nuisances
         
1319   Swimming Pools
         
1321   Hours of Building Work
         
1329   Hauling Excavated Materials
         
1333   Architectural Board of Review
         
1334   Storm Water Management
         
1335   Erosion and Sediment Controls
         
1336   Riparian Setbacks
         1337   Sale of Real Estate: Pre-Sale Certificate Requirements
         1339   Rodent Harborage
         
1340   Wireless Communication Antennas and Towers
CHAPTER 1310:  BUILDING FEES
Section
1310.01   Residential permit, inspection and certificate of occupancy or
approval fees
1310.02   Commercial building permit fees
1310.03   Electrical fees
1310.04   Plumbing fees
1310.05   Heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration fees
1310.06   Gas piping and liquid storage tank fees
1310.07   Fees for work not otherwise covered
1310.08   Work started without a permit
§ 1310.01  RESIDENTIAL PERMIT, INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY OR
APPROVAL FEES.
   The fees prescribed herein shall be additive, and unless otherwise
specifically provided, separate fees shall be paid for each of the items
listed.
   (a)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Calculating aggregate floor area. The aggregate floor area shall be
the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors, including
basements, cellars and attics that are at least 50% habitable. All horizontal
dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of walls, including enclosed
porches.
      (2)   Establishing cost. Where the permit fee is based upon the cost of
the work done under permit, such cost shall be the actual cost as certified by
the owner or authorized representative of the owner, and as approved by the
Building Inspector. The Building Inspector may, at any time up to three months
after the completion of the building, require submission of authoritative
estimates or actual cost data to substantiate the estimated cost stated in the
application for a permit, and require the payment of additional fees when it is
demonstrated that the actual cost of the work is in excess of the estimated
cost upon which permit fees were based.
      (3)   Refund of permit fees. Whenever the work for which a permit has
been issued has been abandoned and is not to be done, such permit may be
returned to the Building Inspector for cancellation and, after a deduction of
$10 from the permit fee has been made, one-half of the balance of the permit
fee, if any, shall be refunded.
      (4)   Schedule of permit fees.
         A.   New buildings. The fee shall be $20 for each $1,000 of
construction, such $20 per $1,000 to be paid on each $1,000 of the
construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of $500,000; and in
addition there shall be a fee of $2 for each $1,000 over the amount of $500,000
or ($20/$1,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over $500,000).
         B.   Additions. The fee shall be $20 for each $1,000 of construction,
such $20 per $1,000 to be paid on each $1,000 of the construction, addition or
alteration up to the amount of $500,000; and in addition, there shall be a fee
of $2 for each $1,000 over the amount of $500,000 or (20/$l,000, first
$500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over $500,000).
         C.   Alterations or repairs when floor area is not added. The fee
shall be $20 for each $1,000 of construction, such $20 per $1,000 to be paid on
each $1,000 of the construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of
$500,000; and in addition, there shall be a fee of $2 for each $1,000 over the
amount of $500,000 or (20/$1,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over
$500,000).
         D.   Garages.
            1.   Up to 400 square feet of floor area: $ TBA.
            2.   For each 100 square feet more than 400: $30.
         E.   Demolition or removal of buildings to sites outside the
municipality.
            1.   Up to 2,000 square feet: $100.
            2.   For each 1,000 square feet more than 2,000: $10.
         F.   Moving of buildings or structures (in addition to fees for
alterations or repairs.)
            1.   On or across a public street, except as provided in subsection
(a)(4)F.2. hereof: $400.
            2.   On or across a public street, but within a vehicle not
exceeding the maximum size and weight permitted: $200.
            3.   From one lot to another without moving onto a public street:
$100.
            4.   From one location to another on the same lot: $50.
         G.   Heating equipment.
            1.   For each heating system in a new house: $50.
            2.   For each new heating system or replacement of system or
replacement of central heating service in existing home: $50.
            3.   Installation of a gas or oil burner (when not included with
permit under subsections (a)(4)G.l. and 2. hereof): $30.
            4.   Installation of unit heater or space heater: $30.
         H.   Plumbing. The basic fee for any plumbing permit shall be $15 to
which shall be added the following charges for each unit installed or replaced:
            1.   For each lavatory, water closet, bathtub, shower trap, one or
two-compartment sink or laundry tray or combination sink and laundry tray: $4.
            2.   For each three-compartment sink or laundry tray, floor drain,
yard drain, refrigerator drain, yard dishwasher, sump pump, garbage grinder,
water filter, inside downspout, hot water tank or similar plumbing fixture:
$10.
            3.   For each 100 feet aggregate length or fraction thereof of
building drain or sewer: $30.
         I.   Gas piping. The basic fee for any permit to install gas piping
shall be: $30, to which shall be added for each gas outlet: $4.
         J.   Electrical work. The basic fee for any electrical permit shall
be: $30, to which shall be added the following charges:
            1.   For each lighting outlet: $2.
            2.   For each lighting fixture*: $2 *When fixtures contain more
than four fluorescent or other similar electric discharge type tubes, each four
such tubes shall be deemed to be a separate lighting fixture. Each four feet of
continuous neon or other similar tubing shall be deemed to be a separate
lighting fixture. Motors up to one-fourth HP are considered as lighting
fixtures.
            3.   Outlets for ranges and similar heating devices of 220 volt
outlet each, and for power motors (over one-fourth HP) each: $6.
         K.   Buildings or equipment not specified. The fee for a permit
specified. The fee for a permit to construct any building or install any
equipment not specifically covered under this subsection (a)(4) shall be two-
tenths of one percent (.2%) of the estimated cost, except that no permit shall
be issued for less than $10. No permit shall be required for musical
instruments, radios, television sets and similar pieces of household furniture
and equipment.
         L.   Obstruction permit: $30, plus, cash deposit if required by
Building Inspector.
         M.   Miscellaneous permits.
            1.   New roof on existing dwelling: $50.
            2.   Metal siding: $50.
            3.   Driveways: $20, plus, for each 100 linear feet or fraction
thereof: $2.
            4.   Fences: $20, plus, for each 100 linear feet or fraction
thereof: $3.
   (b)   Inspection Fees. There shall be no additional fee for inspection
except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   Whenever an inspection has been requested and the work is found
incomplete or not ready for inspection or in need of correction and a
reinspection is necessary, there shall be a reinspection fee of $5.
      (2)   Whenever a special inspection, not a routine inspection of work
being done under a permit is requested, there shall be an inspection fee of
$30.
   (c)   Certificate of Occupancy Fees. There shall be no additional fee for a
certificate of occupancy issued upon completion of a new building.
      (1)   For a certificate of occupancy issued upon completion of an
enlargement of or alteration to an existing building: $15.
      (2)   Duplicate of a certificate of occupancy: $5.
   (d)   Certificate of Approval. There shall be no additional fee for
certificates of approval of plumbing, gas piping or electrical work performed
under a permit issued for such work.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.02  COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The Building Inspector shall issue a building permit and fix the fee to be
paid. The fees to be paid shall be determined in the Building Department and
shall be noted on the application when approved for the issuing of the permit.
Such fees shall be paid to the Director of Finance, who shall give receipt for
the same. Upon presentation of this receipt by the owner, architect, builder or
agent, the permit shall be issued to the applicant. The fees to be paid shall
be as follows.
   (a)   New buildings, additions or alterations to existing buildings.
      (1)   New buildings. Residential, other than one-, two- and three-family,
hospitals and homes, penal and correctional buildings, schools and school
assembly halls, places of assembly, places of outdoor assembly, business
buildings, storage buildings, industrial buildings and special occupancy
buildings, the floor space area, including cellars, basements and sub-basements
as measured at the outside foundation dimensions, the fee shall be as follows:
the fee shall be $20 for each $1,000 of construction, such $20 per $1,000 to be
paid on each $1,000 of construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of
$500,000; and in addition, there shall be a fee of $2 for each $1,000 over the
amount of $500,000 or (20/$l,000), first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over
$500,000.
      (2)   Building additions. The fee shall be $20 for each $1,000 of
construction, such $20 per $1,000 to be paid on each $1,000 of the
construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of $500,000 and in
addition, there shall be of fee of $2 over the amount of $500,000 or (20/
$l,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over $500,000).
      (3)   Building alterations (when no floor area is added). The fee shall
be $20 for each $1,000 of construction, such $20 per $1,000 to be paid on each
$1,000 of the construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of
$500,000; and in addition, there shall be a fee of $2 for each $1,000 over the
amount of $500,000 or (20/$l,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over
$500,000).
   (b)   Miscellaneous structures.
      (1)   Water tanks, cooling towers, and the like, including structures
therefor: $40;
      (2)   Light pole or sign pole: $30 each;
      (3)   Fences: $50, plus $2 per each 100 linear feet; and
      (4)   Other miscellaneous buildings or structures: the fee shall be $20
for each $1,000 of construction, such $20 for each $1,000 to be paid on each
$1,000 of the construction, addition or alteration up to the amount of
$500,000; and in addition, there shall be a fee of $2 for each $1,000 over the
amount of $500,000 or (20/$l,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over
$500,000).
   (c)   Foundation permit. Permits shall be issued in advance of a building
permit, when approved by the Building Inspector: $50.
   (d)   Demolition. Demolition of any building or structure: $80, plus $8 per
1,000 square feet of floor area, including basements or cellars.
   (e)   Moving any building or structure.
      (1)   Within street right-of-way: $100, plus $100 per mile or fraction
thereof; and
      (2)   Within private property: $100.
   (f)   Fixed structures projecting over public property.
      (1)   Marquees, fixed awnings, entrance canopies or other fixed
structures: $40, plus $1 per square foot of horizontal projected area; and
      (2)   Outdoor signs or display structures: $80, plus $0.80 per square
foot of each sign face of advertising.
   (g)   Sign and display structures located back of street right-of-way. Fee
shall be $80, plus $0.80 per square foot of each sign face of advertising. Wall
signs: $80, plus $0.80 per square foot of area.
   (h)   Obstruction of public property. Temporary use (obstruction) of public
property at pavement level or above: $50. The Building Inspector shall require
the applicant to furnish a bond, cash deposit or other satisfactory evidence of
financial responsibility, providing for the payment of any damages which may
occur to any pavement, sidewalk, trees or any damages for which the city may be
held responsible. The applicant shall hold the city harmless, and the like.
   (i)   Elevators and escalators.
      (1)   Each unit of escalators and moving stairways: $100.
      (2)   Each elevator: $100, plus $10 for each level at which elevator
shaft has a door or other opening.
      (3)   Alterations: the fee shall be $20 for each $1,000 of construction,
such $20 per each $1,000 to be paid on each $1,000 of the construction,
addition or alteration up to the amount of $500,000; $2 for each $1,000 over
the amount of $500,000, or (20/$l,000, first $500,000, plus $2 each $1,000 over
$500,000).
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1310.03  ELECTRICAL FEES.
   The basic minimum fee for any electrical permit shall be $50 to which shall
be added the following charges:
   (a)   Each outlet (120 volt): $2.
   (b)   Multi-outlet or base mod for each six feet (120 volt): $2.
   (c)   Temporary lighting (120 volt) first 100 outlets or less: $30, each
outlet more than 100: $1.
   (d)   Electric motors:
 
Up to 3 HP          $10
Over 3 HP to 6 HP   $20
Over 6 HP to 10 HP  $30
Over 10 HP to 15 HP $40
Over 15 HP          $50
 
   (e)   X-ray machines and similar equipment: $50.
   (f)   Each outlet (240 volts), electric drivers, cooking stoves: $20.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.04  PLUMBING FEES.
   The basic minimum fee for any plumbing permit shall be $50 to which shall be
added the following charges:
   (a)   For each trap: $10.
   (b)   Replacement of each fixture where no other plumbing charges are
involved: $10.
   (c)   For each 100-gallon storage capacity or fraction thereof, direct-fired
instantaneous or storage, automatic or manual, coil or water or tube type
service water heaters or for each 240 gallons per hour instantaneous type: $20.
   (d)   Building sewer: from sewer connection to the building for each 100
feet or fraction thereof:
 
Sewer Size (inches) Charge
4, 5 or 6           $50
8                   $60
10                  $70
12 or larger        $80
 
   (e)   Water lines (inside building): $40 per 100 linear feet or fraction
thereof.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.05  HEATING, VENTILATING, AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION FEES.
   Heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration permit charges
shall be as follows:
   (a)   For the first heating unit: $70.
   (b)   For the second or more heating units in the same building: $50.
   (c)   Incinerator: $20.
   (d)   Unit heaters or suspended unit heaters: $30.
   (e)   Air conditioning (except window type): $40.
   (f)   Each refrigeration unit: $30.
      (1)   First ten feet of exterior piping: $30;
      (2)   Each additional foot: $4.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.06  GAS PIPING AND LIQUID STORAGE TANK FEES.
   (a)   The basic minimum fee for any gas piping permit shall be $50 to which
shall be added the following charges:
 
Gas Pipe Size (inches) Charges
Up to 1                $10
1 to 2                 $20
2 to 6                 $30
Over 6                 $40
 
   (b)   The permit charge for the installation of each outdoor above ground or
buried tanks for storing any substance other than water shall be as follows:
 
Gallon Capacity       Charges
Up to 600             $30
Over 600 to 3,000     $50
Over 3,000 to 12,000  $70
Over 12,000 to 20,000 $90
Over 20,000 to 50,000 $110
 
   (c)   The permit charge for the installation of each storage tank for
flammable liquids inside a building shall be as follows:
 
Gallon Capacity       Charges
Up to 600             $20
Over 600 to 3,000     $40
Over 3,000 to 12,000  $60
Over 12,000 to 25,000 $80
 
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.07  FEES FOR WORK NOT OTHERWISE COVERED.
   The permit fee for work not specifically indicated in the fee schedule
provided in this chapter and which work is governed by the requirements of the
Ohio Building Code and other codes relating to the safety of an occupant for
the general public shall be $20 plus $20 for each $1,000 or fraction thereof
estimated cost.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 1310.08  WORK STARTED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   When work for which a permit is required by this chapter is started prior to
obtaining such permit, the fees required by the permit shall be tripled, but
the payment of such triple fee shall not relieve any person from fully
complying with the requirements of this chapter, or any other law of the state
or ordinance of this city. The triple fee shall be in addition to a penalty of
$100 provided by law.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 13-20, passed 6-22-2020)
CHAPTER 1311:  BOARD OF BUILDING CODE APPEALS
Section
1311.01   Board established; composition; notice of hearings
1311.02   Variances; rules and regulations; fee
1311.03   Appeal procedure
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see
Ch. 1107
   Housing Code appeals, see §
1345.08
   Rooming house and hotel appeals, see
Ch. 1355
   Unsafe building appeals, see §
1382.16
§ 1311.01  BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (a)   A Board of Building Code Appeals is hereby established, which shall
consist of the Mayor, who shall act as the Chairperson, the Director of Health,
the Chief of the Police Department and the Chief of the Fire Department, all of
whom shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified and a
member of the Mayor’s staff, other than the City Engineer, to be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of Council. The City Engineer shall act as
Secretary.
   (b)   All meetings of the Board of Building Code Appeals shall be public.
Public notice shall be given of hearings on any appeal from a decision of any
city official by the posting of a notice on the bulletin board in the main
entrance of the City Hall for a period of at least three days, together with
such additional notice, if any, that the Board of Building Code Appeals shall
deem necessary. The Board of Building Code Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings.
(Ord. 5636, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1311.02  VARIANCES; RULES AND REGULATIONS; FEE.
   (a)   (1)   The Board of Building Code Appeals shall determine all matters
properly presented to it and where practical difficulties and unnecessary
hardships shall result from the strict compliance with or the enforcement of
the provisions of any ordinance for which it is designated as the Board of
Appeals, such Board shall have the power to grant variances in harmony with the
general intent of such ordinance and to secure the general welfare and
substantial justice in the promotion of the public health, comfort,
convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the city. The Board shall
also have the power to adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of any ordinance for
which it is designated as the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The Board shall have no authority to hear appeals from enforcement
of the state’s Building Code which the city is precluded from hearing.
   (b)   Applications for variances shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee
of $25.
(Ord. 5636, passed 6-1-1965; Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1311.03  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of any city official made
in the enforcement of any ordinance for which the Board of Building Code
Appeals is designated as the Board of Appeals shall have the right to appeal to
the Board of Building Code Appeals from such decision within ten days from the
date notice of such decision was given or mailed to him or her, and to appear
before the Board at a time and place fixed by the Board. Such appeal must be in
writing. Failure to file a written appeal with the Board within the time
prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. The Board shall
have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of such city
official.
   (b)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board of Building
Code Appeals shall also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision
within ten days from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to
the appellant, and to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by
Council. Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with
Council within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of
appeal. Council shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of the Board.
(Ord. 5636, passed 6-1-1965)
CHAPTER 1313:  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES AND DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
Section
1313.01   Definitions
1313.02   Test for determination of any nuisance
1313.03   Authority of Director
1313.04   Complaints; inspection of premises
1313.05   Summary abatement
1313.06   Nonsummary abatement
1313.07   Right of appeal
1313.08   Hearing procedure before the Nuisance Abatement Board
1313.09   Abatement by city
1313.10   Emergency abatement
1313.11   Authorization for departmental expenditures to abate a public
nuisance
1313.12   Authority of city
1313.13   Unlawful interference prohibited
1313.14   Conflict of law
 
1313.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see Ohio R.C. 3707.01, 3709.22
   Littering, see
Ch. 527
   Noxious or offensive odors, see §
521.07
   Power to abate nuisances, see Ohio R.C. 715.44(A), (C)
   Putrid substances, see §
521.03
   Securing unsafe buildings, see §
1379.07
   Waste collection and disposal, see
Ch. 939
   Weed removal, see §
1379.06
§ 1313.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To lessen, to put an end to or to do away with a public nuisance.
   ABATEMENT. The removal or reduction of a public nuisance.
   DEMOLITION MATERIAL.  All material, including, but not limited to, rock,
stone, concrete and asphalt which is used in construction, mining, building
maintenance, or road or street maintenance.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible matter, including, but not limited to, animal or
vegetable wastes or feces, whether solid, liquid or mixed, which attends,
exists, or is created or accumulates within the city.
   LITTER. Includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of vehicle,
furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary nature or anything else of
an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   OCCUPANT. Any person being the owner or having tenement, lessee or other
contractual right to the premises.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the premises in fee or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of the rents, receiver,
executor, administrator, trustee, lessee or other person in control of the
premises or their duly authorized agents, including, but not limited to,
property managers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate not owned by the City of East Cleveland.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  A condition which exists when any one or more of the
following exists or originates on property not owned by the city:
      (1)   Any building or structure upon any lot of land is so out of repair
or dilapidated that it endangers the public health, safety, welfare or
property;
      (2)   Any tree, stack or other object located on any lot of land in such
condition that it endangers the public health, safety, welfare or property. Any
furniture, appliances, tools, equipment, motor vehicles, or parts of the
aforementioned categories of items, that exist in such condition that a
reasonable person would conclude that the items have been discarded, rendered
unusable, abandoned, broken or unsightly that it endangers the public health,
safety, welfare or property;
      (3)   Any excavation or cellar, that upon any lot of land is unguarded or
in such condition that it endangers the public health, safety, welfare or
property;
      (4)   Any accumulation upon any lot of land of earth, rubbish or other
material which attracts or propagates rats, vermin or inspects in such manner
that it endangers the public health, safety, welfare or property;
      (5)   Any building or structure upon any lot of land is so out of repair
that it constitutes a fire hazard;
      (6)   Accumulation of rubbish or other material upon any lot of land or
in any building or structure in such an amount that it constitutes a fire
hazard;
      (7)   Any activity upon any lot of land that generates noxious odors,
smoke, dust or dirt which endangers the public health, safety, welfare or
property;
      (8)   Any activity conducted upon any lot of land that generates loud,
unusual or unnecessary noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
public health, safety, welfare of property;
      (9)   Any material that is placed, thrown or swept into any street,
walkway, parks or public grounds, which by its nature, endangers the public
health, safety, welfare or property;
      (10)   Any conditions that exists which, at common law, was classified as
a public nuisance;
      (11)   Any condition that exists which has been declared a public
nuisance by the Ohio Revised Code; and
      (12)   Any condition that exists which, at common law, is classified as a
public nuisance.
   RUBBISH or REFUSE.  All natural or human- made matter, whether putrescible
or nonputrescible, combustible or noncombustible and including, but not limited
to, ashes, paper, tin, tin cans, bottles, glass, vegetable material, brush,
grass, leaves, wrappings, cardboard, trees, shrubs, crockery, dead animals,
furniture or appliances (or parts thereof), industrial waste, waste of a
dangerous or explosive nature, septic tank cleanings, demolition matter, rubber
tires, rubber products, metal, motor vehicle parts or pieces, engines and
motors or parts thereof.
   WEEDS. All burrs, vines, Russian, Canadian and common thistles, briers,
dock, burdock, wild mustard, jimpson weed, dog fennel, ragweed, gold rod, sweet
clover, wild parsnip, wild carrot and other noxious vegetation growing wild and
uncultivated upon any land within the city, which may cause noxious exhalations
or which are spreading or forming mature seeds, including, but not limited to,
any poisonous weeds or vines.
§ 1313.02  TEST FOR DETERMINATION OF ANY NUISANCE.
   The test for what conditions or actions constitute a nuisance is whether any
of the described circumstances as stated in §
1313.01 exist to the extent that a danger to health, life, limb or property or
that will cause hurt, harm, discomfort, damage or injury to the public or to
any considerable number of persons in the city by reason of any one or more of
the following:
   (a)   Being detrimental to the general health of the community;
   (b)   Being a fire hazard;
   (c)   Being unsafe for occupancy or use;
   (d)   Being an attractive nuisance to children; and/or
   (e)   Having a lack of reasonable or adequate maintenance of structures and
grounds, causing deterioration and blighting influence on nearby properties and
thereby depreciating the enjoyment and use of the property in the immediate
vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to the community.
§ 1313.03  AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.
   Whenever there exists within the city any act, thing or condition of a land
which has been or may hereafter be defined as a nuisance, the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Public Safety is authorized and
directed to promptly cause its abatement as herein provided.
§ 1313.04  COMPLAINTS; INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (a)   Whenever a complaint is made or brought to the attention of the
Director of Community Development, the Building Inspector, Director of Public
Safety or Chief of the Fire Department, said complaint shall be referred to the
Building Inspector to promptly inspect or cause an inspection to be made of the
premises on which it is alleged that such public nuisance exists. Should the
Building Inspector, after such inspection, find that a public nuisance exists,
he or she shall promptly notify the Fire Chief of the city and the County
Health Department and request such officials to make an inspection of the
premises.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the notice required by division (a) above, the Fire
Chief and County Health Official shall inspect such premises and make a written
report of their findings, which, together with the report of the Building
Inspector, shall be filed with the Director of Community Development.
   (c)   Should the Fire Chief or the County Health Official concur in the
findings of the Building Inspector that a public nuisance exists, abatement of
such public nuisance shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
§ 1313.05  SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Should the Building Inspector, and either the Fire Chief or the County
Health Official, find that a public nuisance exists and that the nature thereof
is such as to require its summary abatement, the Director of Community
Development shall cause photographs to be made of such nuisance and shall file
and keep in his or her office such photographs along with the reports of the
Building Inspector, Fire Chief and County Health Official pertaining to the
public nuisance. The Building Inspector shall then determine the individual,
firm or corporation who from the records in the County Auditor’s office,
appears to be the titled owner of the property and immediately cause a written
notice to be served on such titled owner. Notice shall be served personally on
the titled owner or by certified mail with a return receipt requested. If
service of such written notice is unable to be perfected by the aforesaid
methods, then the Building Inspector shall cause a copy of the aforesaid notice
to be left with the individual, if any, in possession of the premises on which
the public nuisance exists, or if there is no individual in possession of the
premises, he or she shall cause a copy of the notice to be posted on the
premises.
   (b)   The notice required by division (a) above shall state, in brief, the
findings with respect to the existence of the public nuisance by the Building
Inspector and the concurrence of either the Fire Chief or County Health
Official. The notice shall further state that unless the owner causes the
nuisance to be abated within 72 hours of the service of the notice, the
nuisance shall be abated by the city at the expense of the owner.
   (c)   Any act, inspection or findings required to be carried out by the
Building Inspector, Fire Chief, County Health Official or Director of Public
Safety pursuant to this chapter may be carried out by any of their respective
subordinates, assigned or directed by them to carry out such function.
§ 1313.06  NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Should the Building Inspector, and either the Fire Chief or County
Health Official find that a public nuisance exists, but that the nature thereof
is not such as to require summary abatement, reports of their findings shall be
made and filed with the Director of Community Development. The Director of
Community Development shall cause photographs to be made of such nuisance and
shall file and keep in his or her office such photographs along with the
reports of the Building Inspector, Fire Chief and County Health Official
pertaining to the public nuisance. The Building Inspector shall then determine
the individual, firm or corporation who, from the records in the County
Auditor’s office, appears to be the titled owner of the property and shall,
within five days, cause a written notice to be served on such titled owner.
Notice shall be served by certified mail with a return receipt requested. If
service of such written notice is unable to be perfected by the aforesaid
methods, then the Building Inspector shall cause a copy of the aforesaid notice
to be left with the individual, if any, in possession of the premises on which
the public nuisance exists, or if there is no individual in possession of the
premises, he or she shall cause a copy of the notice to be posted on the
premises.
   (b)   The notice required by division (a) above shall state, in brief, the
findings with respect to the existence of the public nuisance by the Building
Inspector and the concurrence of either the Fire Chief or County Health
Official. The notice shall further state that unless the owner causes the
nuisance to be abated within 30 days after service of the notice, the nuisance
shall be abated by the city at the expense of the owner.
§ 1313.07  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (a)   The owner of the premises, or his or her designated representative,
upon which a public nuisance is located and who has been served with a notice,
pursuant to this chapter, that a public nuisance exists and that it must be
abated within 72 hours may, within that 72-hour period, file a written request
and must submit prior to the close of the business day within the aforesaid 72-
hour period before the Director of Community Development requesting a hearing
on the question of whether summary abatement proceedings are warranted for the
abatement of a public nuisance.
   (b)   A hearing held pursuant to division (a) above shall be held no later
than three business days from the date of the (in-person request) for a hearing
by the owner of the premises upon which the public nuisance is located. The
Director of Community Development shall provide to the owner the hearing date,
time and place at the time the in-person request for a hearing is made.
   (c)   The owner of the property upon which a public nuisance exists and who
has been served with a notice, pursuant to §
1313.06, that a public nuisance exists and that it must be abated within 30
days, may, within seven days after receipt of such notice, make a written
demand to the Director of Community Development for a hearing on the question
of whether a public nuisance exists as defined in this chapter.
   (d)   A hearing held pursuant to division (c) above shall be held no later
than ten days following receipt of the written demand to the Director of
Community Development and at least three days’ notice of the hearing shall be
given to the individual who made the written demand for the hearing.
§ 1313.08  HEARING PROCEDURE BEFORE THE NUISANCE ABATEMENT BOARD.
   (a)   All hearings requested pursuant to the provisions of §
1313.07 shall be conducted before a Nuisance Abatement Board comprised of the
Mayor, the Director of Law and the Director of Community Development, or their
designated representatives. The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the finding
of a public nuisance and the issuance of the abatement order by the Building
Inspector by a majority vote.
   (b)   A copy of the decision of the Nuisance Abatement Board shall be served
upon the person who made the written demand for the hearing, by certified mail
with a return receipt requested. In cases involving summary abatement, a
decision shall be rendered at the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of
the Nuisance Abatement Board shall be final and conclusive, unless an appeal is
filed in a court of competent jurisdiction within ten days of the date of the
delivery of the decision.
   (c)   All hearings held by the Nuisance Abatement Board shall be
administrative in nature. At all hearings conducted pursuant to this section,
any party may be represented by legal counsel. The rules of evidence utilized
by the courts shall not be applicable in hearings before the Board. The
Nuisance Abatement Board is hereby empowered to subpoena witnesses and take
testimony under oath.
§ 1313.09  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (a)   Should a public nuisance not be abated within the time stated in the
notice given pursuant to this chapter, or within such additional time as the
Nuisance Abatement Board may grant for such abatement, the Director of
Community Development or his or her designated representative shall have the
right to enter upon the premises and abate such nuisance. In abating a public
nuisance, the Director of Community Development may take such action as is
necessary to complete the abatement and should it be practicable to sell or
salvage any material resulting from such abatement, the Director of Community
Development may cause the same to be sold at public or private sale at the best
price obtainable and shall keep an account of the proceeds thereof. Such
proceeds shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
   (b)   Should the amount recovered be insufficient to pay the cost of the
abatement, the deficiency shall be reported to Council, which shall levy an
assessment against the property upon which the nuisance was abated and cause
such assessment to be certified and collected as other assessments by the city.
Should the amount recovered exceed the cost of such abatement, the amount of
such excess shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon the filing of a
claim thereto and proof of title and right to such surplus. Should the owner of
the property fail to pay for or provide funds for removal of the nuisance, the
Director of Community Development may utilize any labor or equipment of the
city in abating a public nuisance or may contract for the abatement thereof in
accordance with the provisions as stated in this chapter.
§ 1313.10  EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Whenever a public nuisance exits, as defined in this chapter, and the
nature thereof constitutes an emergency as defined in division (b) below, the
city may take immediate action to abate the nuisance and such abatement may
take place without prior notice to the titled owner of the premises on which
the public nuisance exists. Notice of the action taken to abate the nuisance
shall immediately be sent to the titled owner by certified mail with a return
receipt requested.
   (b)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY means an unforeseen combination of
circumstances which calls for immediate action in order to preserve the public
health, safety, welfare or property.
   (c)   In any proceeding pursuant to this section, the determination that a
public nuisance exists and that the nature thereof constitutes an emergency, as
defined in division (b) above, shall be made solely by the Building Inspector,
with the exception that the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative
shall order that such dangerous conditions or materials be removed or remedied
in accordance with the provisions of the state’s Fire Code regarding orders to
eliminate dangerous or hazardous conditions. In all other circumstances, the
concurrence of the Fire Chief or the County Health Official shall not be
required.
§ 1313.11  AUTHORIZATION FOR DEPARTMENTAL EXPENDITURES TO ABATE A PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   (a)   Upon the failure of the owner of property to abate a public nuisance
after notice thereof, within the time prescribed in such notice, the Director
of Community Development may authorize the abatement of the nuisance by the
city in the manner set forth herein.
   (b)   Where the estimated cost of abating the nuisance is $500 or less, or
where the property owner pays the city the estimated cost of abating the
nuisance, regardless of the amount thereof, within the time prescribed in the
notice, the Director of Community Development may authorize its abatement by
the city without any additional approval.
   (c)   Where the estimated cost of abating the nuisance is greater than $500
but less than $7,500, and the owner has not paid to the city the estimated cost
of abating the nuisance in the time prescribed in the notice, the Director of
Community Development may authorize its abatement by the city upon the written
approvals of the Director of Finance, the Director of Law and the Mayor.
   (d)   Where the estimated cost of abating the nuisance is greater than
$7,500, and the owner has not paid to the city the estimated cost of abating
the nuisance in the time prescribed in the notice, the Director of Community
Development may authorize its abatement by the city upon the approval, by
ordinance, of Council.
   (e)   Regardless of the estimated cost of abating a public nuisance by the
city as determined herein, the owner shall be responsible for payment to the
city of the actual costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance, if not
abated by the owner within the time prescribed in the notice. Should the city’s
actual costs in abating such nuisance be less than the estimate, and the owner
has paid to the city an amount equal to such estimated amount, then the city
shall refund to the owner the amount of the difference.
   (f)   The Director of Community Development shall annually advise Council,
in writing, of those public nuisances abated by the city pursuant to this
chapter, and the costs thereof, as to each property. Council may assess the
same, plus administrative costs, upon the real estate from which the nuisance
originated, where such costs have not been paid by the owner thereof to the
city.
§ 1313.12  AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be an enlargement and not
a limitation or restriction on the power or authority of the city or any
officer thereof to take any action or bring any suit or proceeding in respect
to public nuisances.
§ 1313.13  UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with any municipal officer, assistant,
subordinate, employee or agent while he or she is engaged in or about the
carrying out of any of the duties set forth in this chapter.
§ 1313.14  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   In the event of conflict between any provisions of this chapter, including
any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to its provisions and any other
provisions of the codified ordinances, including any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to such codified ordinances, the more restrictive provision or
provisions shall prevail and control.
§ 1313.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, whoever violates any such
provision shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalties provided in division (a) above, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
501.11 shall be fined not more than $5,000.
CHAPTER 1315:  CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCES
Section
1315.01   Public nuisances; abatement
§ 1315.01  PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (a)   The following activities occurring on residential property, and
engaged in by an owner, occupant or invitee of the owner or occupant of
residential property, are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Any animal violations under §§
505.01 (dogs running at large),
505.03 (animal odors, biting, noise),
505.10 (dangerous and vicious dogs),
505.07 (killing or injuring animal), and 505.08 (cruelty to animals) of the
codified ordinances;
      (2)   Any disorderly conduct, disturbance of the peace or other violation
of
Chapter 509 of the codified ordinances;
      (3)   Any drug abuse violation under
Chapter 513 of the codified ordinances;
      (4)   Any gambling violation under
Chapter 517 of the codified ordinances;
      (5)   Any health, safety or sanitation violation under
Chapter 521 of the codified ordinances;
      (6)   Any obstruction of official business violation under
Chapter 525 of the codified ordinances;
      (7)   Any alcohol violations under Chapter 529 of the codified
ordinances;
      (8)   Any sex offenses under §§
533.07 (public indecency),
533.08 (procuring),
533.09 (soliciting), or
533.10 (prostitution) of the codified ordinances;
      (9)   Any offense against another person under §§
537.03 (assault),
537.04 (negligent assault),
537.05 (aggravated menacing),
537.06 (menacing),
537.07 (endangering children),
537.12 (misuse of 9-1-1), or
537.18 (unruliness and delinquency) of the codified ordinances;
      (10)   Any offense against property under §§
541.03 (criminal damaging or endangering) or
541.04 (criminal mischief) of the codified ordinances;
      (11)   Any littering or depositing of waste under §
543.03 of the codified ordinances;
      (12)   Any theft violation under §§
545.05 (petty theft),
545.08 (unauthorized use of property), or
545.19 (criminal tools) of the codified ordinances;
      (13)   Any weapons, explosives, firearm or handgun violation under
Chapter 549 or
553 of the codified ordinances;
      (14)   Any noise violation under §
337.31 of the codified ordinances; and
      (15)   Any fireworks violation under §
1519.04 of the codified ordinances.
   (b)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee, upon finding that two or
more nuisance activities declared in this section have occurred within any 12-
month period, may cause a written notice and order to be served on the owner of
the property declaring that such property is a nuisance property. The notice
and order shall set forth the nature of the nuisances, the estimated costs to
abate any future nuisance and state that the owner may avoid being charged the
costs of abatement by taking steps to prevent any future nuisance activity as
set forth in this section. The notice shall further state that if a third or
subsequent nuisance activity as declared in this section occurs within 12
months of the dates of the first two activities, the city may abate the
nuisance by responding to the activities using administrative and law
enforcement actions, and the costs of such abatement shall be assessed on the
nuisance property. Notice shall be served as set forth in §
1345.03.
   (c)   If within 12 months after the first of the two nuisances referred to
in division (b) above has occurred, a third nuisance activity as declared in
this section occurs, the city may abate the nuisance by responding to the
activity using administrative and law enforcement actions, and the costs of
such abatement shall be assessed on the nuisance property in the same manner as
in §
1345.07, and the costs shall be calculated as set forth in division (e) below.
The city shall provide notice to the owner of the nuisance property of the
city’s intent to assess the costs of abatement against the owner’s property at
least 30 days before such costs are certified to the county for assessment
against the property, and such notice shall contain a description of the
nuisance activity that is the basis for the notice of intent to assess the
property, and the cost to abate. Notice shall be served as set forth in §
1345.03.
   (d)   The owner of a nuisance property who receives a notice from the Chief
of Police or his or her designee pursuant to this section may appeal such
notice by submitting a written request for reconsideration to the Chief of
Police within 30 days of the date of the notice. If the Chief of Police finds
that the facts presented do not support the declaration of a nuisance, the
Chief shall rescind the notice. Otherwise the Chief shall deny the request and
refer the appeal for hearing by the Board of Building Code Appeals. Any such
appeal shall not stay any actions by the city to abate the first or any
subsequent nuisance activity. In any such appeal, the city must show by a
preponderance of the evidence that each violation stated in the notice being
appealed has occurred, and that the declaration of the property as a nuisance
property or of the intent of the city to assess the property for abatement
costs, whichever is applicable, is justified. The city shall be deemed to have
failed to have met this standard if the owner demonstrates by a preponderance
of evidence that:
      (1)   He or she was not the owner at the time of any of the nuisance
activity that is the basis of the notice; or
      (2)   He or she had knowledge of the nuisance activity, but has promptly
and vigorously taken all actions necessary to abate such nuisance including,
without limitation, compliance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 5321.17(C)
and 5321.04(A)(9); or
      (3)   He or she had no knowledge of the nuisance activity and could not,
with reasonable care and diligence, have known of the nuisance activity; and
upon receipt of the notice of the declaration of the property as a nuisance
property, he or she promptly took all actions necessary to abate the nuisance
including, without limitation, compliance with the requirements of Ohio R.C.
5321.17(C) and 5321.04(A)(9).
   (e)   Costs of abatement shall be assessed based upon the hourly wage of the
police officer or officers involved in the abatement of the nuisance activity,
plus 75%, multiplied by the number of hours required to abate the nuisance.
   (f)   The declaration of a nuisance property, an order to abate a nuisance,
or the assessment of costs by the city on a property, do not affect or limit
the city’s right or authority to bring criminal prosecution or other legal
action against any person for violation of the city’s ordinances.
(Ord. 98-04, passed 6-29-2004)
CHAPTER 1319:  SWIMMING POOLS
Section
1319.01   Definitions
1319.02   Compliance
1319.03   Building permit required
1319.04   Permit fees
1319.05   License to operate required
1319.06   Revocation of license
1319.07   Plans to be submitted to Building Inspector
1319.08   Design and construction requirements
1319.09   Operation and maintenance
1319.10   Portable wading pools
1319.11   Compliance with requirements of State Department of Health
 
1319.99    Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Location in U1 Use District, see §§
1123.02(P),
1123.03(P)
   Ohio Building Code excavation amendments, see §
1301.11
   Public swimming pool licenses, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3749
§ 1319.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANCES. All equipment servicing a swimming pool or permanent wading
pool, including the four feet of walk immediately adjacent to and contiguous to
the pool.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the City of East Cleveland or
his or her authorized representative.
   CITY. The City of East Cleveland.
   PERMANENT WADING POOL.  An artificial container for a body of water, with a
controlled water supply, which will retain water to a depth of not more than
two feet at any point, which is used or intended to be used for wading by
adults or children and which is not intended to be readily dismantled or moved
from one place to another.
   POOL. A swimming pool or permanent wading pool.
   PORTABLE WADING POOL.  An artificial container for a body of water, with a
controlled water supply, which will retain water to a depth of not more than
two feet at any point, which is used or intended to be used for wading by
adults or children and which may be readily dismantled or moved from one place
to another.
   PRIVATE POOL.  A pool maintained by an individual primarily for the sole use
of his or her household and guests. A PRIVATE POOL shall not include pools
operated for the purpose of profit or in connection with any business operated
for profit; nor pools for the use of members and their guests of a nonprofit
club or organization; nor pools used by house residents of a two-family
residence, multiple-dwelling unit, apartment district, block, subdivision,
neighborhood, community or other specified area of residence; nor pools where
the owner or any member of his or her household accepts money or other things
of value from neighbors, guests or other users of the pool to assist in
defraying the cost of construction, maintenance or operations of such pool.
   PUBLIC POOL. All pools other than private pools.
   SWIMMING POOL.  An artificial container for a body of water, with a
controlled water supply, which will retain water to a depth of more than two
feet at any point and which is used or intended to be used for swimming by
adults or children.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.02  COMPLIANCE.
   Every pool constructed, maintained or operated in the city shall comply with
all provisions of this chapter, and all applicable provisions of state and city
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including the Dwelling House Code, the
Building Code and the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.03  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall proceed with the construction, installation, enlargement or
alteration of any pool or appurtenances unless all necessary permits therefor
shall have first been obtained from the city.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)  Penalty, see §
1319.99
§ 1319.04  PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for the building permit to construct a swimming pool shall be $25.
The fee for the building permit to alter, add to or remodel a swimming pool or
to construct a permanent wading pool shall be $15. Other permit fees shall be
as provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1319.05  LICENSE TO OPERATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain a pool until a license therefor shall
have been issued by the Mayor. Such license shall be issued pursuant to an
application duly made therefor and the payment of a fee of $20 for a private
pool, and a fee of $150 for a public pool. Such license shall expire on April
30 of each year. A new license must be obtained for each year in which the pool
is to be operated or maintained. Pools owned and maintained by any public or
parochial school, YMCA, YWCA or any other institution operated not for profit
and used exclusively for charitable purposes shall be licensed as stated
herein, but no fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
1319.99
§ 1319.06  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the Mayor may be revoked for failure to comply with
the provisions of this chapter or with the applicable provisions of state and
city laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.07  PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED TO BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Location plans, profile plans, specifications and other pertinent
explanatory data must be submitted to the Building Inspector in connection with
an application for a permit to construct, install, enlarge or alter a swimming
pool and its appurtenances or a permanent wading pool and its appurtenances.
All such plans shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-eighth inch per
foot, on paper or cloth in ink, or by some process that will not fade or
obliterate. The structure and appurtenances shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with accepted engineering practices. Such plans, specifications
and other pertinent explanatory data shall include the following information:
   (a)   Materials to be used;
   (b)   Method of construction;
   (c)   All dimensions, including the length, width and depth of the pool and
the width of the walk contiguous to the pool, the height and location of all
fences with respect to property lines, and the location of the pool with
respect to property and setback lines;
   (d)   The pool equipment layout showing the location of the filters, pumps,
chlorinators and hair and lint interceptors;
   (e)   The liquid capacity of the pool;
   (f)   If the structure is a swimming pool, the liquid capacity of an
accessory permanent wading pool, if any;
   (g)   The kind, number and size of the filters, including the square footage
of the filter area in each unit;
   (h)   The maximum capacity of the filters in gallons per minute;
   (i)   The method of chlorination to be used;
   (j)   The type and design of the enclosing fence and gates;
   (k)   The description and plan of lighting facilities; and
   (l)   Other plans, specifications or explanatory data as may reasonably be
required by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.08  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The following design and construction requirements shall be observed
for swimming pools and appurtenances and for permanent wading pools and
appurtenances which are constructed, installed, enlarged or altered after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (b)   For pools already in existence, the Building Inspector shall furnish
the holder of the license with a program of improvements and additions which
shall be carried out over a period of not to exceed five years after written
notice, in order to comply with the provisions of this chapter; except that the
fence and gate requirements shall be met within six months from the effective
date of this chapter.
      (1)   Material. The water-containing surface of the pool shall be light
in color and impervious, and shall provide a tight tank with smooth and easily
cleaned surfaces. Exposed sand or dirt bottoms are prohibited.
      (2)   Water supply and outlets. Each pool shall be equipped with water
outlets and inlets of sufficient size and proper location to provide a uniform
circulation of water in all parts of the pool. All water inlets shall be
located not less than one foot above the flood rim of the pool, or shall be
provided with a vacuum brake sufficient in size to prevent back-flow in the
event of lowered pressure in the public water lines. All drainage of the pool
shall be into a storm sewer outlet. A hydrostatic relief valve shall be
installed at the lowest point in the pool bottom.
      (3)   Walk areas. The pool shall be completely surrounded by a walk area
at least four feet in width. The walk area shall be contiguous to the pool and
shall be constructed of impervious material. The slope of the walk area shall
have a pitch of at least one-fourth inch to the foot away from the pool.
      (4)   Recirculation. The recirculation system shall be designed to
provide complete circulation throughout all parts of the pool and shall be
capable of providing a complete turnover of water at least once in eight hours.
The recirculating system shall consist of circulating pumps, float valve
controls on the water supply, hair and lint catchers, piping connections to
inlets and outlets, and all other fixtures and connections deemed to be
reasonably necessary by the Building Inspector. All equipment shall be readily
accessible and every pool shall be provided with equipment necessary for the
measurement of acidity or alkalinity and for residual determinations.
Installation of “fill and draw” type swimming pools shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Hair and lint catcher. The pump suction line of the recirculating
system shall be provided with a hair and lint catcher.
      (6)   Hose and hose connections. Hose and hose connections must be of
ample size and pressure, as determined by the Building Inspector, to clean all
of the pool area.
      (7)   Lighting. All lighting and wiring shall be in accordance with the
standards of the National Electrical Code and all fixtures and equipment shall
be of a type approved for such use by the Underwriters Laboratory. No overhead
electrical wiring shall be placed over the pool or the appurtenances. Lights
used to illuminate the pool shall be so arranged and shaded as to reflect light
away from adjoining premises and public streets. The use of daylight blue
lenses is recommended.
      (8)   Enclosure of pool.
         A.   Private pools shall be completely surrounded by a fence not less
than six feet in height. Public pools shall be completely surrounded by a fence
not less than six feet in height. A building or existing wall may be used as a
part of such enclosure.
         B.   All fence openings shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices made inaccessible to small children. The latching mechanism
shall be such that a small child cannot open or unlatch the gate.
         C.   All gates or doors opening into the pool enclosure shall be
designed to permit locking and shall be kept locked when the pool is not in
actual use or is left unattended.
         D.   The fence and gates shall be permanent and substantial and so
constructed as to deny access to the pool to small children and animals when
the gates are closed. The fence surrounding the pool shall be at least 15 feet
from the abutting property lines, except that the Board of Zoning Appeals may,
when in its opinion special conditions or hardships are involved, conditionally
permit such fence to be less than 15 feet from the abutting property lines. The
exact location of the fence as it is to be constructed shall appear on the plan
submitted to the Building Inspector prior to the securing of any required
consents of the owners or lessees of all properties contiguous to the property
upon which such pool is proposed to be constructed as provided for in the
zoning ordinance.
      (9)   Location. Except in a U-1 Use District, no portion of any pool, not
including appurtenances, shall be constructed within 44 feet of any setback
line, nor within 19 feet of any abutting property line.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960; Ord. 5549, passed 4-21-1964)
§ 1319.09  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The following operation and maintenance requirements shall be observed by
all holders of pool licenses within the city.
   (a)   Safety of bathers.
      (1)   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the users of
pools from injury or accident.
      (2)   Convenient means of ingress and egress shall be provided and the
depth of the water and any irregularities of the bottom shall be clearly
indicated. Safety appliances such as lifebuoys, life hooks, bamboo poles, or
ropes and equipment, including first-aid kits, shall be provided and be readily
accessible.
   (b)   Unnecessary noise. No person shall make, continue or cause to be made
or continued at any pool, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise, or any noise
which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others. In the operation of a pool, no person shall use or permit
the use of or the operation of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of
sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants.
   (c)   Commercial activities. The carrying on of any commercial activities
entailing sales of food, drinks or other merchandise within the enclosures of
any pool is prohibited.
   (d)   Chlorination. Chlorination shall be accomplished in such a manner that
the amount of excess or residual chlorine in all parts of the pool at all times
when the pool is in use shall not be less than four-tenths parts per million,
or more than one part per million.
   (e)   Quality of water. The bacterial quality of water shall be maintained
so that no two successive samples nor more than 15% of any number of successive
samples shall contain more than 200 bacteria per cubic centimeter, nor show
positive confirmed results of coliform bacteria. The Director of Health may
require samples to be taken and submitted for test whenever considered
necessary for the safe operation of any pool.
   (f)   Operating personnel; lifeguards. Each pool shall be operated under the
supervision of a responsible adult who shall be capable of making field tests,
such as residual chlorine, and who shall be thoroughly familiar with the
operation of all mechanical appurtenances of the pool. Any such operator shall,
upon request by the Health Department, demonstrate his or her ability to
perform the requirements of this provision. At public pools, as defined in this
chapter, an adequate number of life guards, at least one, shall be on duty
during swimming periods to allow a complete view of the entire pool. The
quality, training and number of such lifeguards shall be as specified by the
American Red Cross or YMCA standards, or other like standards prescribed by the
rules and regulations promulgated by the Health Department.
   (g)   Hours of operation; rules: posting of rules. No pool shall be used
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. All public pools as defined by this chapter
shall have specified swimming periods. No person shall swim or use a public
swimming pool except during the swimming periods specified by the owner thereof
or his or her agent. Children under the age of 12 shall swim or use public
pools only when accompanied by at least one parent or other responsible adult
for every five children during the specified swimming periods. All public
swimming pools shall have the following conspicuously posted at the premises of
the pool: the specified swimming period hours; “No swimming unless lifeguard on
duty”; and “Children under 12 years must be accompanied by responsible adult”.
   (h)   Cleanliness and operating condition of equipment. Every pool shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and all equipment shall be
maintained in a satisfactory operating condition during the periods in which
the pool is in use.
   (i)   Nuisance. No pool shall be used, kept, maintained or operated in the
city if such using, keeping, maintaining or operating shall occasion a nuisance
or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
   (j)   Indecent exposure. Every person using a pool must wear a bathing suit
or other suitable garment to protect his or her person from indecent exposure.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960; Ord. 6351, passed 5-3-1972)  Penalty, see §
1319.99
§ 1319.10  PORTABLE WADING POOLS.
   (a)   Material. The water-containing surface of a portable type wading pool
shall be impervious and provide a tight tank with smooth and easily cleaned
surfaces.
   (b)   Water supply. Water for the pool shall be obtained from the city water
supply.
   (c)   Cleanliness of pool. Each portable wading pool shall be drained after
each day of use and at all times when not in use. Before refilling the pool it
shall be thoroughly cleaned and all sediment and other foreign matter removed.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.11  COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.
   In the construction, operation and maintenance of any pool, the laws of the
state and the rules, regulations, and requirements of the State Department of
Health shall be observed. In the event of any conflict between the provisions
of this chapter or provisions of other pertinent ordinances and any provisions
of the rules, regulations or requirements of the State Department of Public
Health, the provision imposing the higher standard or the more stringent
requirement shall be controlling.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
§ 1319.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, agent or officer of a corporation who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each offense,
or imprisoned not more than 90 days for each offense, or both. Each day such
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5260, passed 5-31-1960)
CHAPTER 1321:  HOURS OF BUILDING WORK
Section
1321.01   Building work hours
 
1321.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing the peace, see §
509.03
§ 1321.01  BUILDING WORK HOURS.
   No person shall construct, erect, alter, demolish, excavate or repair in and
about buildings, structures and appurtenances in the city on legal holidays or
Sundays nor except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays other than legal holidays, except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety, and then only after obtaining a permit therefor
from the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 5467, passed 5-9-1963)  Penalty, see §
1321.99
§ 1321.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each separate day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5484, passed 6-18-1963)
CHAPTER 1329:  HAULING EXCAVATED MATERIALS
Section
1329.01   Permit required
1329.02   Permit deposits
1329.03   Street cleaning; deposit refund less expenses
 
1329.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Barricades and warning lights, see §
543.02
   Ohio Building Code excavation amendments, see §
1301.11
§ 1329.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall do or cause to be done any excavating upon or in any
lot or lands within the city, which excavating shall in any way, manner or form
require the hauling of dirt or other substances or materials to or from such
excavation, on the alleys or streets of the city, such person shall first
obtain a permit from the Mayor and make payment to the Director of Finance of
the deposit as herein provided.
(Ord. 1691, passed 2-28-1923)  Penalty, see §
1329.99
§ 1329.02  PERMIT DEPOSITS.
   The deposit for such permit shall be as follows:
   (a)   Fifty dollars shall be charged for any excavation containing an area
of not more than 200 square feet or cubical contents of not more than ten cubic
yards, provided, however, that the excavator shall secure a permit and shall
agree in writing to pay the cost of any cleaning of streets which may be
necessary due to such work;
   (b)   One hundred dollars shall be charged for any excavation containing an
area of not more than 1,500 square feet and not less than 200 square feet;
   (c)   Two hundred dollars shall be charged for any excavation containing an
area of not more than 3,000 square feet and not less than 1,500 square feet;
and
   (d)   (1)   Four hundred dollars shall be charged for any excavation
containing an area of more than 3,000 square feet.
      (2)   The area amount of such excavation shall be determined by the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1329.03  STREET CLEANING; DEPOSIT REFUND LESS EXPENSES.
   After a permit has been issued as provided herein and after the excavation
has been completed, the person doing or causing such excavation to be done
shall notify the Building Department that such work has been completed,
whereupon the alleys or streets over which the dirt or other substances or
material has been hauled, as provided in the permit, shall be inspected. Any
dirt or other substances or material found on the streets resulting from such
excavating and hauling shall be removed by the city and the city shall have the
right to remove such dirt from the streets or alleys at any time during such
excavating and hauling. The city shall then refund to the original holder of
such permit or his or her assigns the original permit deposit less the cost of
the removal of any dirt or other substances or materials as provided herein,
plus 25% for overhead expenses, and a fee of $50.
(Ord: 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1329.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 1333:  ARCHITECTURAL BOARD OF REVIEW
Section
1333.01   Membership
1333.02   Qualifications of members
1333.03   Compensation
1333.04   Conflict of interest
1333.05   Purpose
1333.06   Powers and organization; annual report
1333.07   Order of review
1333.08   Refusal of building permit
1333.09   Appeals
§ 1333.01  MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established an Architectural Board of Review which shall
consist of at least three but not more than four members to be appointed by the
Mayor and confirmed by Council for the following terms: one for a term expiring
December 31, 1973; one for a term expiring December 31, 1974; and one for a
term expiring December 31, 1975. Subsequent appointments to the Board shall be
for terms of three years each. Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of
unexpired terms in the same manner as the original appointments and
confirmations.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972; Ord. 50-10, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 1333.02  QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Architectural Board of Review shall be an architect duly
registered and authorized to practice architecture under the laws of the state
and shall have been actively engaged in the general practice of architecture as
a registered architect in the state for a period of not less than five years
prior to his or her appointment to the Board, and shall be a resident of this
municipality. However, Council may waive the requirement that a member shall be
a resident of this municipality.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
§ 1333.03  COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Architectural Board of Review shall receive a fee of $100
per meeting, but not more than $3,000 in any one year.
(Ord. 114-01, passed 6-5-2001)
§ 1333.04  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Architectural Board of Review shall participate in the
review of any work of which he or she or any partner or professional associate
is the author or in which he or she or they have any direct or indirect
financial interest. If such an occasion arises, the other members of the Board
should proceed to determine the particular matter. In the event that such other
two members fail to agree, then a temporary member shall be appointed by the
Mayor to serve in that particular case. Such temporary member shall have all
the qualifications required by §
1333.02 and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by Council when
confirming the appointment.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
§ 1333.05  PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purposes of the Architectural Board of Review are to protect the
citizens and property owners of the city in the enjoyment of the value,
appearance and use of their real estate within the city, to maintain a high
character of community development, to avoid undesirable conditions affecting
the health, safety, comfort and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city,
to avoid destruction of the proper relationship between the taxable value of
real property in the city and the cost of municipal services provided therefor,
and to preserve and protect the public health, safety and welfare by
maintaining and protecting real estate within the city from impairment or
destruction of value. Such purposes shall be accomplished by the Architectural
Board of Review by regulating, according to proper architectural principles,
the design, use of materials, finished grade lines and orientation of all new
buildings hereafter erected, and the moving, alteration, improvement, repair,
adding to or razing in whole or in part of all existing buildings, subject to
the provisions of the zoning ordinance and Building Code of the city.
   (b)   In reviewing, regulating and approving the building plans, the
Architectural Board of Review shall consider and take cognizance of the
development of adjacent, contiguous and neighboring buildings and properties
for the purpose of achieving safe, harmonious and integrated development of
related properties, the Architectural Board of Review shall exercise its powers
and perform its duties for the accomplishment of the purposes stated herein
only. These provisions shall apply to all construction by the city as well.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
§ 1333.06  POWERS AND ORGANIZATION; ANNUAL REPORT.
   One member of the Board shall be elected Chairperson and shall be
responsible for the proper administration of its duties. One member of the
Board shall act as Secretary and shall keep or cause to be kept in City Hall a
complete record of all meetings of the Board and of all transactions handled by
the Board. The Secretary of the City Planning Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals shall act as Executive Secretary for the Secretary of the Architectural
Board of Review. Two or more members shall constitute a quorum, and official
action of the Architectural Board of Review shall require the affirmative vote
of two or more members. All meetings shall be held at the City Hall. The
Architectural Board of Review shall exercise the powers and duties herein
provided in accordance with the ordinances of the city, the laws of the state,
and such rules and regulations governing procedure which the Board may from
time to time adopt, holding meetings as required therefor, including at least
one meeting in April of each year for the purpose of preparing and filing with
the Mayor and Council, on or before May 1 of each year, a complete report of
the business handled by the Board during the preceding year.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
§ 1333.07  ORDER OF REVIEW.
   The Architectural Board of Review shall receive and promptly review and pass
upon all drawings, data, reports and complaints in the order filed, to the
extent practicable, under published rules and regulations consistent with the
purpose of this Board and adopted by it. The Architectural Board of Review
shall immediately notify the Inspector of Buildings in writing of action taken
in each instance and no building permit shall be issued unless plans and
specifications therefor have been approved in writing by the Architectural
Board of Review. A prospective applicant for a building permit on a particular
project may have an informal review of preliminary plans and specifications
upon the payment of a fee of $100 per meeting, which fee payment shall be a
credit toward the fees due for a building permit for such project, if the
application therefor is filed within six months of such review.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1333.08  REFUSAL OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   Upon receiving the report, including findings and recommendations, of the
Architectural Board of Review disapproving plans and specifications upon which
a permit application has been filed, the Building Inspector shall refuse to
issue the permit, and shall immediately notify the applicant of such refusal
and the reason therefor.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
§ 1333.09  APPEALS.
   The applicant for a permit may appeal directly to Council for refusal of the
Building Inspector, based upon an Architectural Board of Review report
disapproving plans and specifications, by giving notice of such appeal to the
Clerk of Council not more than ten days after the notice of such refusal.
Thereafter Council shall conduct a hearing on the appeal and shall decide the
appeal by adopting, modifying or rejecting the findings and recommendations of
the Architectural Board of Review, and the decision of Council shall be final.
(Ord. 6404, passed 10-4-1972)
CHAPTER 1334:  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
1334.01   Purpose and scope
1334.02   Definitions
1334.03   Disclaimer of liability
1334.04   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
1334.05   Development of comprehensive storm water management plans
1334.06   Application procedures
1334.07   Compliance with state and federal regulations
1334.08   Comprehensive storm water management plans
1334.09   Performance standards
1334.10   Alternating actions
1334.11   Easements
1334.12   Maintenance and final inspection approval
1334.13   On-going inspections
1334.14   Fees
1334.15   Bond
1334.16   Installation of water quality best management practices
1334.17   Violations
1334.18   Appeals
 
1334.99    Penalty
§ 1334.01  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   The purpose of this regulation is to establish technically feasible
and economically reasonable storm water management standards to achieve a level
of storm water quality and quantity control that will minimize damage to
property and degradation of water resources and will promote and maintain the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (b)   This regulation requires owners who develop or re-develop their
property within the city to:
      (1)   Control storm water runoff from their property and ensure that all
storm water management practices are properly designed, constructed and
maintained;
      (2)   Reduce water quality impacts to receiving water resources that may
be caused by new development or redevelopment activities;
      (3)   Control the volume, rate and quality of storm water runoff
originating from their property so that surface water and ground water are
protected and flooding and erosion potential are not increased;
      (4)   Minimize the need to construct, repair and replace subsurface storm
drain systems;
      (5)   Preserve natural infiltration and ground water recharge, and
maintain subsurface flow that replenishes water resources, except in slippage
prone soils;
      (6)   Incorporate storm water quality and quantity controls into site
planning and design at the earliest possible stage in the development process;
      (7)   Reduce the expense of remedial projects needed to address problems
caused by inadequate storm water management;
      (8)   Maximize use of storm water management practices that serve
multiple purposes including, but not limited to, flood control, erosion
control, fire protection, water quality protection, recreation, and habitat
preservation;
      (9)   Design sites to minimize the number of stream crossings and the
width of associated disturbance in order to minimize the city’s future expenses
related to the maintenance and repair of stream crossings; and
      (10)   Maintain, promote and re-establish conditions necessary for
naturally occurring stream processes that assimilate pollutants, attenuate
flood flows and provide a healthy water resource.
   (c)   This regulation shall apply to all parcels used or being developed,
either wholly or partially, for new or relocated projects involving highways
and roads; subdivisions or larger common plans of development; industrial,
commercial, institutional or residential projects; building activities on
farms; redevelopment activities; grading; and all other uses that are not
specifically exempted in this section.
   (d)   Public entities, including the state, the county and the city, shall
comply with this regulation for roadway projects initiated after March 10, 2006
and, to the maximum extent practicable, for projects initiated before that
time.
   (e)   This regulation does not apply to activities regulated by, and in
compliance with, the state’s Agricultural Sediment Pollution Abatement Rules.
   (f)   This regulation does not require a comprehensive storm water
management plan for linear construction projects, such as pipeline or utility
line installation, that do not result in the installation of impervious surface
as determined by the Building Commissioner. Such projects must be designed to
minimize the number of stream crossings and the width of disturbance. Linear
construction projects must comply with the requirements of Chapter 1335 Erosion
and Sediment Controls.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACRE. A measurement of area equaling 43,560 square feet.
   AS-BUILT SURVEY . A survey shown on a plan or drawing prepared by a
Registered Surveyor indicating the actual dimensions, elevations and locations
of any structures, underground utilities, swales, detention facilities and
sewage treatment faculties after construction has been completed.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).  Schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, operation and maintenance procedures, treatment requirements, and
other practices to reduce the pollution of water resources and to control storm
water volume and rate.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  Pub. Law No. 92-500, as amended, Pub. Law No. 95-217 being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., Pub. Law No. 95-576 being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.,
Pub. Law No. 96-483 being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., Pub. Law No. 97-117 being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and Pub. Law No. 100-4 being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq. Referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 , being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.
   COMMUNITY. The City of East Cleveland, its designated representatives,
boards or commissions.
   COMPREHENSIVE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The written document and plans
meeting the requirements of this regulation that set forth the plans and
practices to minimize storm water runoff from a development area, to safely
convey or temporarily store and release post-development runoff at an allowable
rate to minimize flooding and stream bank erosion, and to protect or improve
storm water quality and stream channels.
   CRITICAL STORM.  A storm that is calculated by means of the percentage
increase in volume of runoff by a proposed development area. The CRITICAL STORM
is used to calculate the maximum allowable storm water discharge rate from a
developed site.
   DETENTION FACILITY.  A basin, pond, oversized pipe or other structure that
reduces the peak flow rate of storm water leaving the facility by temporarily
storing a portion of the storm water entering the facility.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA.  A parcel or contiguous parcels owned by one person or
persons, or operated as one development unit, and used or being developed for
commercial, industrial, residential, institutional or other construction or
alteration that changes runoff characteristics.
   DEVELOPMENT DRAINAGE AREA.  A combination of each hydraulically unique
watershed with individual outlet points on the development area.
   DISTURBED AREA.  An area of land subject to erosion due to the removal of
vegetative cover and/or soil disturbing activities.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
surface or subsurface drains.
   EROSION. The process by which the land surface is worn away by the action of
wind, water, ice, gravity or any combination of those forces.
   EXTENDED CONVEYANCE.  A storm water management practice that replaces and/or
enhances traditional open or closed storm drainage conduits by retarding flow,
promoting percolation of runoff into the soil, and filtering pollutants during
the storm water quality event.
   EXTENDED DETENTION.  A storm water management practice that replaces and/or
enhances traditional detention facilities by releasing the runoff collected
during the storm water quality event over at least 24 to 48 hours, retarding
flow and allowing pollutants to settle within the facility.
   FINAL STABILIZATION.  All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of at least
80% coverage for the area has been established or equivalent stabilization
practices, such as the rise of mulches or geotextiles, have been employed.
   GRADING. The process in which the topography of the land is altered to a new
slope.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER.  Any surface that cannot effectively absorb or infiltrate
water. This may include roads, streets, parking lots, rooftops, sidewalks and
other areas not covered by vegetation.
   INFILTRATION. A storm water management practice that does not discharge to a
water resource during the storm water quality event, requiring collected runoff
to either infiltrate into the groundwater and/or be consumed by
evapotranspiration, thereby retaining storm water pollutants in the facility.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT.  A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at different
times on different schedules under one plan.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE.  The level of pollutant reduction that operators
of small municipal separate storm sewer systems regulated under 40 C.F.R. Parts
9, 122, 123, and 124, referred to as NPDES Storm Water Phase II, must meet.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES).  A regulatory
program in the Federal Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., that
prohibits the discharge of pollutants into surface waters of the United States
without a permit.
   NONSTRUCTURAL STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.  Storm water runoff control
and treatment techniques that use natural practices to control runoff and/or
reduce pollution levels.
   POST-DEVELOPMENT.  The conditions that exist following the completion of
soil disturbing activity in terms of topography, vegetation, land use, and the
rate, volume, quality or direction of storm water runoff.
   PRE-CONSTRUCTION MEETING.  Meeting prior to construction between all parties
associated with the construction of the project, including government agencies,
contractors and owners, to review agency requirements and plans as approved and
submitted.
   PRE-DEVELOPMENT.  The conditions that exist prior to the initiation of soil
disturbing activity in terms of topography, vegetation, land use and the rate,
volume, quality or direction of storm water runoff.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A professional engineer registered in the state with
specific education and experience in water resources engineering, acting in
conformance with the Code of Ethics of the state’s Board of Registration for
Engineers and Surveyors.
   REDEVELOPMENT. A construction project on land where impervious cover has
previously been developed and where the new land use will not increase the
runoff coefficient. If the new land use will increase the runoff coefficient,
then the project is considered to be a new development project rather than a
redevelopment project. (Refer to Table 1 in § 1334.09).
   RIPARIAN AREA. Land adjacent to any brook, creek, river or stream having a
defined bed and bank that, if appropriately sized, helps to stabilize
streambanks, limit erosion, reduce flood size flows and/or filter and settle
out runoff pollutants, or performs other functions consistent with the purposes
of this regulation.
   RIPARIAN AND WETLAND SETBACK. The real property adjacent to a water resource
on which soil disturbing activities are limited, all as defined by Chapter
1336, Riparian Setbacks.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and is eventually returned to water resources.
   SEDIMENT. The soils or other surface materials that can be transported or
deposited by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION. The deposition of sediment in water resources.
   SITE OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, corporation, firm, trust, commission,
board, public or private partnership, joint venture, agency, unincorporated
association, municipal corporation, county or state agency, the federal
government, other legal entity, or an agent thereof that is responsible for the
overall construction site.
   SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Clearing, grading, excavating, filling or other
alteration of the earth’s surface where natural or human made ground cover is
destroyed and that may result in, or contribute to, increased storm water
quantity and/or decreased storm water quality.
   STABILIZATION. The use of best management Practices that reduce or prevent
soil erosion by storm water runoff, trench dewatering, wind, ice, gravity or a
combination thereof.
   STRUCTURAL STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.  Any constructed facility,
structure or device that provides storage, conveyance and/or treatment of storm
water runoff.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME.  The volume of runoff from a contributing watershed
that must be captured and treated, equivalent to the maximized capture volume
as defined in the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Manual and Report
on Engineering Practice No. 87 and Water Environment Federation Manual of
Practice No. 23 titled Urban Runoff Quality Management.
   WATER RESOURCE.  Any public or private body of water, including wetlands,
the area within the ordinary high water level of lakes and ponds; as well as
the area within the ordinary high water level of any brook, creek, river or
stream having a defined bed and bank (either natural or artificial) which
confines and conducts continuous or intermittent flow.
   WATER RESOURCE CROSSING.  Any bridge, box, arch, culvert, truss or other
type of structure intended to convey people, animals, vehicles or materials
from one side of a watercourse to another. This does not include private, non-
commercial footbridges or pole mounted aerial electric or telecommunication
lines, nor does it include below grade utility lines.
   WATERSHED. The total drainage area contributing storm water runoff to a
single point.
   WETLAND. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas
(40 C.F.R. Part 232, as amended).
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.03  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (a)   Compliance with the provisions of this regulation shall not relieve
any person from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by
law. The provisions of this regulation are promulgated to promote the health,
safety and welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any
individual or any particular parcel of property.
   (b)   By approving a comprehensive storm water management plan under this
regulation, the city does not accept responsibility for the design,
installation and operation and maintenance of storm water management practices.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.04  CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Where this regulation is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the Building
Commissioner, shall prevail.
   (b)   If any clause, section or provision of this regulation is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (c)   This regulation shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a nuisance on their property, and compliance with the provisions of
this regulation shall not be a defense in any action to abate such a nuisance.
   (d)   Failure of the city to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the site owner
from the responsibility for the condition or damage insulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the city, its officers, employees or agents being
responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.05  DEVELOPMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (a)   This regulation requires that a comprehensive storm water management
plan be developed and implemented for soil disturbing activities disturbing one
or more acres of total land, or less than one acre if part of a larger common
plan of development or sale disturbing one or more acres of total land, and on
which any regulated activity of §
1334.01(c) is proposed.
   (b)   The city shall administer this regulation, shall be responsible for
determination of compliance with this regulation and shall issue notices and
orders as may be necessary. The city may consult with the county’s SWCD,
private engineers, storm water districts, or other technical experts in
reviewing the comprehensive storm water management plan.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.06  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Pre-application meeting. The applicant shall attend a pre-application
meeting with the Building Commissioner to discuss the proposed project, review
the requirements of this regulation, identify unique aspects of the project
that must be addressed during the review process, and establish a preliminary
review and approval schedule.
   (b)   Preliminary comprehensive storm water management plan. The applicant
shall submit two sets of a preliminary comprehensive storm water management
plan (preliminary plan) and the applicable fees to the Building Commissioner.
The Preliminary Plan shall show the proposed property boundaries, setbacks,
dedicated open space, public roads, water resources, storm water control
facilities and easements in sufficient detail and engineering analysis to allow
the City Engineer to determine if the site is laid out in a manner that meets
the intent of this regulation and if the proposed storm water management
practices are capable of controlling runoff from the site in compliance with
this regulation. The applicant shall submit two sets of the preliminary plan
and applicable fees as follows:
      (1)   For subdivisions: in conjunction with the submission of the
preliminary subdivision plan;
      (2)   For other construction projects: in conjunction with the
application for a zoning permit; and
      (3)   For general clearing projects: in conjunction with the application
for a zoning permit.
   (c)   Final comprehensive storm water management plan. The applicant shall
submit two sets of a final comprehensive storm water management plan (final
plan) and the applicable fees to the Building Commissioner in conjunction with
the submittal of the final plat, improvement plans or application for a
building or zoning permit for the site. The final plan shall meet the
requirements of §
1334.08 and shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to approval of the
final plat and before issuance of a building permit by the Building Department.
   (d)   Review and comment. The City Engineer shall review the preliminary and
final plans submitted, and shall approve or return for revisions with comments
and recommendations for revisions. A preliminary or final plan rejected because
of deficiencies shall receive a narrative report stating specific problems and
the procedures for filing a revised preliminary or final plan.
   (e)   Approval necessary. Land clearing and soil-disturbing activities shall
not begin and building permits shall not be issued without an approved
comprehensive storm water management plan.
   (f)   Valid for two years. Approvals issued in accordance with this
regulation shall remain valid for two years from the date of approval.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.07  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   Approvals issued in accordance with this regulation do not relieve the
applicant of responsibility for obtaining all other necessary permits and/or
approvals from other federal, state and/or county agencies. If requirements
vary, the most restrictive shall prevail. These permits may include, but are
not limited to, those listed below. Applicants are required to show proof of
compliance with these regulations before the city will issue a building or
zoning permit.
   (a)   State’s EPA NPDES permits authorizing storm water discharges
associated with construction activity or the most current version thereof.
Proof of compliance with these requirements shall be the applicant’s notice of
intent (NOI) number from the state’s EPA, a copy of the state’s EPA Director’s
authorization letter for the NPDES permit or a letter from the site owner
certifying and explaining why the NPDES permit is not applicable.
   (b)   Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341. Proof of
compliance shall be a copy of the state’s EPA water quality certification
application tracking number, public notice, project approval, or a letter from
the site owner certifying that a qualified professional has surveyed the site
and determined that § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341, is
not applicable. Wetlands and other waters of the United States shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the
time of application of this regulation.
   (c)   State’s EPA isolated wetland permit. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the state’s EPA’s isolated wetland permit application tracking number,
public notice, project approval or a letter from the site owner certifying that
a qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that the state’s
EPA’s isolated wetlands permit is not applicable. Isolated wetlands shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the
time of application of this regulation.
   (d)   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344. Proof of
compliance shall be a copy of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Individual
Permit application, public notice or project approval, if an individual permit
is required for the development project. If an individual permit is not
required, the site owner shall submit proof of compliance with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineer’s Nationwide Permit Program. This shall include one of the
following:
      (1)   A letter from the site owner certifying that a qualified
professional has surveyed the site and determined that § 404 of the Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, is not applicable; or
      (2)   A site plan showing that any proposed fill of waters of the United
States conforms to the general and special conditions specified in the
applicable nationwide permit. Wetlands and other waters of the United States
shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
at the time of application of this regulation.
   (e)   The state’s dam safety law. Proof of compliance shall be a copy of the
ODNR Division of Water permit application tracking number, a copy of the
project approval letter from the ODNR Division of Water, or a letter from the
site owner certifying and explaining why the state’s dam safety law is not
applicable.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.08  COMPREHENSIVE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (a)   Comprehensive storm water management plan required. The applicant
shall develop a comprehensive storm water management plan describing how the
quantity and quality of storm water will be managed after construction is
complete for every discharge from the site and/or into a water resource. The
plan will illustrate the type, location and dimensions of every structural and
non-structural storm water management practice incorporated into the site
design, and the rationale for their selection. The rationale must address how
these storm water management practices will address flooding within the site as
well as flooding that may be caused by the development upstream and downstream
of the site. The rationale will also describe how the storm water management
practices minimize impacts to the physical, chemical and biological
characteristics of on-site and downstream water resources and, if necessary,
correct current degradation of water resources that is occurring or take
measures to prevent predictable degradation of water resources.
   (b)   Preparation by professional engineer. The comprehensive storm water
management plan shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer and
include supporting calculations, plan sheets and design details. To the extent
necessary, as determined by the City Engineer, a site survey shall be performed
by a registered professional surveyor to establish boundary lines, measurements
or land surfaces.
   (c)   Community procedures. The City Engineer shall prepare and maintain
procedures providing specific criteria and guidance to be followed when
designing the storm water management system for the site. These procedures may
be updated from time to time, at the discretion of the City Engineer, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. The City Engineer shall make the final determination of whether the
practices proposed in the comprehensive storm water management plan meet the
requirements of this regulation. The City Engineer may also maintain a list of
acceptable best management practices that meet the criteria of this regulation
to be used in the city.
   (d)   Contents of comprehensive storm water management plan. The
comprehensive storm water management plan shall contain an application,
narrative report, construction site plan sheets, a long-term inspection and
maintenance agreement and a site description with the following information
provided:
      (1)   Site description:
         A.   A description of the nature and type of the construction activity
(e.g., residential, shopping mall, highway and the like);
         B.   Total area of the site and the area of the site that is expected
to be disturbed (i.e., grubbing, clearing, excavation, filling or grading,
including off-site borrow areas);
         C.   A description of prior land uses at the site;
         D.   An estimate of the impervious area and percent of imperviousness
created by the soil-disturbing activity at the beginning and at the conclusion
of the project;
         E.   Existing data describing the soils throughout the site, including
the soil series and association, hydrologic soil group, porosity, infiltration
characteristics, depth to groundwater, depth to bedrock and any impermeable
layers;
         F.   If available, the quality of any known pollutant discharge from
the site such as that which may result from previous contamination caused by
prior land uses;
         G.   The location and name of the immediate water resource(s) and the
first subsequent water resource(s);
         H.   The aerial (plan view) extent and description of water resources
at or near the site that will be disturbed or will receive discharges from the
project; and
         I.   Describe the current condition of water resources including the
vertical stability of stream channels and indications of channel incision that
may be responsible for current or future sources of high sediment loading or
loss of channel stability.
      (2)   Site map showing:
         A.   Limits of soil-disturbing activity on the site;
         B.   Soils types for the entire site, including locations of unstable
or highly erodible soils;
         C.   Existing and proposed one-foot contours. This must include a
delineation of drainage watersheds expected before, during and after major
grading activities as well as the size of each drainage watershed in acres;
         D.   Water resource locations, including springs, wetlands, streams,
lakes, water wells, and associated setbacks on or within 200 feet of the site,
including the boundaries of wetlands or streams and first subsequent named
receiving water(s) the applicant intends to fill or relocate for which the
applicant is seeking approval from the Army Corps of Engineers and/or the
state’s EPA;
         E.   Existing and planned locations of buildings, roads, parking
facilities and utilities; and
         F.   The location of any in-stream activities including stream
crossings.
      (3)   Company name and contact information as well as contact name,
addresses and phone numbers for the following:
         A.   The Professional Engineer who prepared the comprehensive storm
water management plan; and
         B.   The site owner.
      (4)   Phase, if applicable, of the overall development plan;
      (5)   List of sublot numbers if project is a subdivision;
      (6)   The state’s EPA NPDES permit number and other applicable state and
federal permit numbers, if available, or status of various permitting
requirements if final approvals have not been received;
      (7)   Location, including complete site address and sublot number if
applicable;
      (8)   Location of any easements or other restrictions placed on the use
of the property;
      (9)   A site plan sheet showing:
         A.   The location of each proposed post-construction storm water
management practice; and
         B.   The geographic coordinates of the site and each proposed practice
in North American Datum Ohio State Plan North. It is preferred that the entire
site be shown on one plan sheet to allow a complete view of the site during
plan review. If a smaller scale is used to accomplish this, separate sheets
providing an enlarged view of areas on individual sheets should also be
provided.
      (10)   An inspection and maintenance agreement. The inspection and
maintenance agreement required for storm water management practices under this
regulation shall be between the city and the applicant and shall contain the
following information and provisions:
         A.   The location of each storm water management practice, including
those practices permitted to be located in, or within 50 feet of, water
resources, and identification of the drainage area served by each storm water
management practice;
         B.   A schedule for regular maintenance for each aspect of the storm
water management system to ensure continued performance of that system as is
detailed in the approved comprehensive storm water management plan. This
schedule may include additional standards, as required by the City Engineer, to
ensure continued performance of storm water management practices permitted to
be located in, or within 50 feet of, water resources;
         C.   Identification of the landowner(s), organization, or municipality
responsible for long-term maintenance, including repairs of the storm water
management practices;
         D.   The landowner(s), organization, or municipality shall maintain
storm water management practices in accordance with this regulation;
         E.   The city shall conduct inspections as necessary to verify that
the storm water management practices are being maintained and operated in
accordance with this regulation;
         F.   The city shall maintain public records of the results of site
inspections, shall inform the landowner(s), organization or municipality
responsible for maintenance of the inspection results and shall specifically
indicate any corrective actions required to bring the storm water practices
into proper working condition;
         G.   If the city notifies the landowner(s), organization or
municipality responsible for maintenance of the maintenance problems that
require correction, the specific corrective actions shall be taken within a
reasonable time frame as determined by the city;
         H.   The city is authorized to enter upon the property and to perform
the corrective actions identified in the inspection report if the landowner(s),
organization or municipality responsible for maintenance does not make the
required corrections in the specified time period. The city shall be reimbursed
by the landowner(s), organization or municipality responsible for maintenance
for all expenses incurred within ten days of receipt of invoice from the city;
         I.   The method of funding long-term maintenance and inspections of
all storm water management practices; and
         J.   A release of the city from all damages, accidents, casualties,
occurrences or claims that might arise or be asserted against the city from the
construction, presence, existence or maintenance of the storm water management
practices. Alteration or termination of these stipulations is prohibited. The
applicant must provide a draft of this inspection and maintenance agreement as
part of the comprehensive storm water management plan submittal. Once a draft
is approved, a recorded copy of the agreement must be submitted to the city to
receive final inspection approval of the site.
      (11)   The applicant shall submit calculations for projected storm water
runoff flows, volumes and timing into and through all storm water management
practices for flood control, channel protection, water quality and the
condition of the habitat, stability and incision of each water resource and its
floodplain, as required in §
1334.09 of this regulation. These submittals shall be completed for both pre-
and post- development land use conditions and shall include the underlying
assumptions and hydrologic and hydraulic methods and parameters used for these
calculations. The applicant shall also include critical storm determination and
demonstrate that the runoff from upper watershed areas have been considered in
the calculations.
      (12)   Prior to construction or before the pre-construction meeting,
provide the list of all contractors and subcontractors names, addresses and
phones involved with the implementation of the comprehensive storm water
management plan, including a written document containing signatures of all
parties as proof of acknowledgment that they have reviewed and understand the
requirements and responsibilities of the comprehensive storm water management
plan.
      (13)   The location and description of existing and proposed drainage
patterns and storm water management practices, including any related storm
water management practices beyond the development area and the larger common
development area.
      (14)   For each storm water management practice to be employed on the
development area, include the following:
         A.   Location and size, including detail drawings, maintenance
requirements during and after construction, and design calculations, all where
applicable;
         B.   Final site conditions, including storm water inlets and permanent
nonstructural and structural storm water management practices. Details of storm
water management practices shall be drawn to scale and shall show volumes and
sizes of contributing drainage areas; and
         C.   Any other structural and/or non-structural storm water management
practices necessary to meet the design criteria in this regulation and any
supplemental information requested by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.09  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (a)   General. The storm water system, including storm water management
practices for storage, treatment and control, and conveyance facilities, shall
be designed to prevent structure flooding during the 100-year, 24-hour storm
event; to maintain predevelopment runoff patterns, flows, and volumes; and to
meet the following criteria.
      (1)   Integrated practices that address degradation of water resources.
The storm water management practices shall function as an integrated system
that controls flooding and minimizes the degradation of the physical,
biological and chemical integrity of the water resources receiving storm water
discharges from the site. Acceptable practices shall:
         A.   Not disturb riparian areas, unless the disturbance is intended to
support a watercourse restoration project and complies with Chapter 1336,
Riparian Setbacks;
         B.   Maintain predevelopment hydrology and groundwater recharge on as
much of the site as practicable;
         C.   Only install new impervious surfaces and compact soils where
necessary to support the future land use; and
         D.   Compensate for increased runoff volumes caused by new impervious
surfaces and soil compaction by reducing storm water peak flows to less than
predevelopment levels. Storm water management practices that meet the criteria
in this regulation, and additional criteria required by the City Engineer shall
comply with this regulation.
      (2)   Practices designed for final use. Storm water management practices
shall be designed to achieve the storm water management objectives of this
regulation, to be compatible with the proposed post-construction use of the
site, to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to function safely
with minimal maintenance.
      (3)   Storm water management for all lots. Areas developed for a
subdivision, as defined in Title Threes Subdivision Control, shall provide
storm water management for the development of all subdivided lots. This shall
include provisions for lot grading and drainage that prevent structure flooding
during the 100-year, 24-hour storm; and maintain, to the extent practicable,
the pre-development runoff patterns, volumes and peaks from the lot.
      (4)   Storm water facilities in water resources. Storm water management
practices and related activities shall not be constructed in water resources
unless the applicant shows proof of compliance with all appropriate permits
from the state’s EPA, the U.S. Army Corps and other applicable federal, state
and local agencies as required in §
1334.07 of this chapter, and the activity is in compliance with Chapter 1335
Erosion and Sediment Control, and Chapter 1336 Riparian Setbacks, all as
determined by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Storm water ponds and surface conveyance channels. All storm water
pond and surface conveyance designs must provide a minimum of one foot
freeboard above the projected peak stage within the facility during the 100-
year, 24-hour storm. When designing storm water ponds and conveyance channels,
the applicant shall consider public safety as a design factor and alternative
designs must be implemented where site limitations would preclude a safe
design.
      (6)   Exemption. The site where soil-disturbing activities are conducted
shall be exempt from the requirements of §
1334.09 if it can be shown to the satisfaction of the City Engineer that the
site is part of a larger common plan of development where the storm water
management requirements for the site are provided by an existing storm water
management practice, or if the storm water management requirements for the site
are provided by practices defined in a regional or local storm water management
plan approved by the City Engineer.
      (7)   Maintenance. All storm water management practices shall be
maintained in accordance with inspection and maintenance agreements approved by
the City Engineer as detailed in §
1334.08.
      (8)   Ownership. Unless otherwise required by the city, storm water
management practices serving multiple lots in subdivisions shall be on a
separate lot held and maintained by an entity of common ownership or, if
compensated by the property owners, by the city. Storm water management
practices serving single lots shall be placed on these lots, protected within
an easement, and maintained by the property owner.
      (9)   Preservation of existing natural drainage. Practices that preserve
and/or improve the existing natural drainage shall be used to the maximum
extent practicable. Such practices may include minimizing site grading and
compaction; protecting and/or restoring water resources, riparian areas and
existing vegetation; and maintaining unconcentrated storm water runoff to and
through these areas.
   (b)   Storm water conveyance design criteria. All storm water management
practices shall be designed to convey storm water to allow for the maximum
removal of pollutants and reduction in flow velocities. This shall include, but
not be limited to the following.
      (1)   Stream relocation or enclosure. The City Engineer may allow the
enclosure or relocation of water resources only if the applicant shows proof of
compliance with all appropriate permits from the state’s EPA, the U.S. Army
Corps and other applicable federal, state and local agencies as required in §
1334.07 of this regulation, and the activity is in compliance with Chapter 1335
Erosion and Sediment Control and Chapter 1336 Riparian Setbacks, all as
determined by the City Engineer. At a minimum, stream relocation designs must
show how the project will minimize changes to the vertical stability,
floodplain form, channel form and habitat of upstream and downstream channels
on and off the property.
      (2)   Off-site storm water discharges. Off-site storm water runoff that
discharges to or across the applicant’s development site shall be conveyed
through the storm water conveyance system planned for the development site at
its existing peak flow rates during each design storm. Off-site flows shall be
diverted around storm water quality control facilities or, if this is not
possible, the storm water quality control facility shall be sized to treat the
off-site flow. Comprehensive storm water management plans will not be approved
until it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City Engineer that off-site
runoff will be adequately conveyed through the development site in a manner
that does not exacerbate upstream or downstream flooding and erosion.
      (3)   Sheet flow. The site shall be graded in a manner that maintains
sheet flow over as large an area as possible. The maximum area of sheet flow
shall be determined based on the slope, the uniformity of site grading, and the
use of easements or other legally-binding mechanisms that prohibit re-grading
and/or the placement of structures within sheet flow areas. In no case shall
the sheet flow length be longer than 300 feet, nor shall a sheet flow area
exceed one and one-half acres. Flow shall be directed into an open channel,
storm sewer or other storm water management practice from areas too long and/or
too large to maintain sheet flow, all as determined by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Open channels. Unless otherwise allowed by the City Engineer,
drainage tributary to storm water management practices shall be provided by an
open channel with landscaped banks and designed to carry the ten-year, 24-hour
storm water runoff from upstream contributory areas.
      (5)   Open drainage systems. Open drainage systems shall be preferred on
all new development sites to convey storm water where feasible. Storm sewer
systems shall be allowed only when the site cannot be developed at densities
allowed under city zoning or where the use of an open drainage system affects
public health or safety, all as determined by the City Engineer. The following
criteria shall be used to design storm sewer systems when necessary.
         A.   Storm sewers shall be designed such that they do not surcharge
from runoff caused by the five-year, 24-hour storm, and that the hydraulic
grade line of the storm sewer stays below the gutter flow line of the overlying
roadway, or below the top of drainage structures outside the roadway during a
ten-year, 24-hour storm. The system shall be designed to meet these
requirements when conveying the flows from the contributory area within the
proposed development and existing flows from off-site areas that are upstream
from the development.
         B.   The minimum inside diameter of pipe to be used in public storm
sewer systems is 12 inches. Smaller pipe sizes may be used in private systems,
subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         C.   All storm sewer systems shall be designed, taking into
consideration the tail water of the receiving facility or water resource. The
tail water elevation used shall be based on the design storm frequency. The
hydraulic grade line for the storm sewer system shall be computed with
consideration for the energy losses associated with entrance into and exit from
the system, friction through the system and turbulence in the individual
manholes, catch basins and junctions within the system.
         D.   The inverts of all curb inlets, manholes, yard inlets and other
structures shall be formed and channelized to minimize the incidence of
quiescent standing water where mosquitoes may breed.
         E.   Headwalls shall be required at all storm sewer inlets or outlets
to and from open channels or lakes.
      (6)   Water resource crossings. The following criteria shall be used to
design structures that cross a water resource in the city.
         A.   Water resource crossings other than bridges shall be designed to
convey the stream’s flow for the minimum 25-year, 24-hour storm.
         B.   Bridges, open bottom arch or spans are the preferred crossing
technique and shall be considered in the planning phase of the development.
Bridges and open spans should be considered for all state scenic rivers, cold-
water habitat, exceptional warm water habitat, seasonal salmonid habitat
streams and Class III headwater streams. The footers or piers for these bridges
and open spans shall not be constructed below the ordinary high water mark.
         C.   If a culvert or other closed bottom crossing is used, 25% of the
cross-sectional area or a minimum of one foot of box culverts and pipe arches
must be embedded below the channel bed.
         D.   The minimum inside diameter of pipes to be used for crossings
shall be 12 inches.
         E.   The maximum slope allowable shall be a slope that produces a ten-
fps velocity within the culvert barrel under design flow conditions. Erosion
protection and/or energy dissipaters shall be required to properly control
entrance and outlet velocities.
         F.   All culvert installations shall be designed with consideration
for the tail water of the receiving facility or water resource. The tail water
elevation used shall be based on the design storm frequency.
         G.   Headwalls shall be required at all culvert inlets or outlets to
and from open channels or
lakes.
         H.   Streams with a drainage area of five square miles or larger shall
incorporate floodplain culverts at the bankfull elevation to restrict head loss
differences across the crossing so as to cause no rise in the 100-year storm
event.
         I.   Bridges shall be designed such that the hydraulic profile through
a bridge shall be below the bottom chord of the bridge for either the 100-year,
24-hour storm, or the 100-year flood elevation as determined by FBMA, whichever
is more restrictive.
      (7)   Overland flooding. Overland flood routing paths shall be used to
convey storm water runoff from the 100-year, 24-hour storm event to an adequate
receiving water resource or storm water management practice such that the
runoff is contained within the drainage, easement for the flood routing path
and does not cause flooding of buildings or related structures. The peak 100-
year water surface elevation along flood routing paths shall be at least one
foot below the finished grade elevation at the structure. When designing the
flood routing paths, the conveyance capacity of the site’s storm sewers shall
be taken into consideration.
      (8)   Compensatory flood storage mitigation. In order to preserve
floodplain storage volumes and thereby avoid increases in water surface
elevations, any filling within floodplains approved by the city must be
compensated by removing an equivalent volume of material. First consideration
for the location(s) of compensatory floodplain volumes should be given to areas
where the stream channel will have immediate access to the new floodplain
within the limits of the development site. Consideration will also be given to
enlarging existing or proposed retention basins to compensate for floodplain
fill if justified by a hydraulic analysis of the contributing watershed. Unless
otherwise permitted by the city, reductions in volume due to floodplain fills
must be mitigated within the legal boundaries of the development. Embankment
slopes used in compensatory storage areas must reasonably conform to the
natural slopes adjacent to the disturbed area. The use of vertical retaining
structures is specifically prohibited.
      (9)   Velocity dissipation. Velocity dissipation devices shall be placed
at discharge locations and along the length of any outfall to provide non-
erosive flow velocity from the structure to a water resource so that the
natural physical and biological characteristics and functions of the water
resource are maintained and protected.
   (c)   Storm water quality control.
      (1)   Direct runoff to a BMP. The site shall be designed to direct runoff
to one or more of the following storm water management practices. These
practices are listed in Table 2 of this regulation and shall be designed to
meet the following general performance standards:
         A.   Extended conveyance facilities that slow the rate of storm water
runoff; filter and biodegrade pollutants in storm water; promote infiltration
and evapotranspiration of storm water; and discharge the controlled runoff to a
water resource;
         B.   Extended detention facilities that detain storm water; settle or
filter particulate pollutants; and release the controlled storm water to a
water resource;
         C.   Infiltration facilities that retain storm water; promote
settling, filtering and biodegradation of pollutants; and infiltrate captured
storm water into the ground. The City Engineer may require a soil engineering
report to be prepared for the site to demonstrate that any proposed
infiltration facilities meet these performance standards; and
         D.   The City Engineer may approve other BMPs if the applicant
demonstrates to the City Engineer satisfaction that these BMPs meet the
objectives of this regulation as stated in division (c)6) below.
      (2)   Criteria applying to all storm water management practices.
Practices chosen must be sized to treat the water quality volume (WQv) and to
ensure compliance with Ohio Water Quality Standards (OAC Chapter 3745-1).
         A.   The WQv shall be equal to the volume of runoff from a 0.75-inch
rainfall event and shall be determined according to one of the following
methods:
            1.   Through a site hydrologic study approved by the City Engineer
that uses continuous hydrologic simulation; site-specific hydrologic
parameters, including impervious area, soil infiltration characteristics, slope
and surface routing characteristics; proposed best management practices
controlling the amount and/or timing of runoff from the site; and local long-
term hourly records; or
            2.   Using the following equation:
               WQv = C*P*A/12
                  a.   With the following meanings:
      WQv =   Water quality volume in acre-feet
      C =   Runoff coefficient appropriate for storms less than one inch
      P =   0.75 inch precipitation depth
      A =   Area draining into the storm water practice, in acres.
               b.   Runoff coefficients required by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) for use in determining the water quality volume
are listed in Table 1. Alternatively, the City Engineer may consider use of the
following equation to calculate the runoff coefficient if the applicant can
demonstrate that appropriate controls are in place to limit the proposed
impervious area of the development:
   C = 0.858i3 - 0.78i2 + 0.774i + 0.04, where: area that is impervious
Table 1: Runoff Coefficients Based on the Type of Land Use
Land Use Runoff Coefficient
Table 1: Runoff Coefficients Based on the Type of Land Use
Land Use                                           Runoff Coefficient
Industrial and commercial                          0.8
High density residential (>8 dwellings/acre)       0.5
Medium density residential (4 to 8 dwellings/acre) 0.4
Low density residential (<4 dwellings/acre)        0.3
Open space and recreational areas                  0.2
Where land use will be mixed, the runoff coefficient should be calculated
using a weighted average. For example, if 60% of the contributing drainage
area to the storm water treatment structure is low density residential, 30% is
high density residential, and 10% is open space, the runoff coefficient is
calculated as follows (0.6)(0.3)+(0.3)(0.5)+(0ri)(0.2) = (0.35)
 
         B.   An additional volume equal to 20% of the WQv shall be
incorporated into the storm water practice for sediment storage.
         C.   Storm water quality management practices shall be designed such
that the drain time is long enough to provide treatment and protect against
downstream bank erosion, but short enough to provide storage available for
successive rainfall events as defined in Table 2.
Table 2: Draw Down Times for Storm Water Management Practices
Best Management Practice Drain Time of WQv
Table 2: Draw Down Times for Storm Water Management Practices
Best Management Practice                                    Drain Time of WQv
Constructed wetlands (above permanent pool)                 24 hours
Extended conveyance facilities (vegetated swales, filter    24 hours
strips) extended conveyance detention design through design
Best Management Practice                                    Drain Time of WQv
Extended detention facilities extended dry detention basins 48 hours
Infiltration facilities                                     24 - 48 hours
Media filtration, bioretention                              40 hours
Wet detention basins **                                     24 hours
* Size to pass a hydrograph with a volume equal to the WQv, a duration of two
hours, and peak rainfall intensity of one inch/hour at a depth of no more
than three inches. The use of this criterion is limited to sites where the
total area disturbed is five acres or less.
**Provide both a permanent pool and an extended detention volume above the
permanent pool, each sized with at least 0.75*WQv.
 
         D.   Each practice shall be designed to facilitate sediment removal,
vegetation management, debris control and other maintenance activities defined
in the inspection and maintenance agreement for the site.
      (3)   Additional criteria applying to infiltration facilities.
         A.   Infiltration facilities shall only be allowed if the soils of the
facility fall within hydrologic soil groups A or B, and if the seasonal high
water table and any underlying bedrock are at least six feet below the final
grade elevation.
         B.   All runoff directed into an infiltration basin must first flow
through an extended conveyance facility to remove coarser sediments that could
cause a loss of infiltration capacity.
         C.   During construction, all runoff from disturbed areas of the site
shall be diverted away from the proposed infiltration basin site. No
construction equipment shall be allowed within the infiltration basin site to
avoid soil compaction.
      (4)   Additional criteria applying to extended conveyance facilities.
         A.   Facilities shall be lined with fine turf-forming, flood-tolerant
grasses.
         B.   Facilities designed according to the extended conveyance
detention design drain time shall:
            1.   Not be located in areas where the depth to bedrock and/or
seasonal high water table is less than three feet below the final grade
elevation; and
            2.   Only be allowed where the underlying soil consists of
hydrologic soil group (HSG) A or B, unless the underlying soil is replaced by
at least a two and one-half foot deep layer of soil amendment with a
permeability equivalent to a HSG A or B soil and an underdrain system is
provided.
         C.   Facilities designed according to the flow through design drain
time shall:
            1.   Only be allowed on sites where the total area disturbed is
five acres or less; and
            2.   Be designed to slow and filter runoff flowing through the turf
grasses with a maximum depth of flow no greater-than three inches.
         D.   Concentrated runoff shall be converted to sheet flow before
entering an extended conveyance facility designed according to the flow through
drain time.
      (5)   Additional criteria for extended detention facilities.
         A.   The outlet shall be designed to release the bottom 50% of the
water quality volume in no less than two-thirds of the drain time. A valve
shall be provided to drain any permanent pool volume for removal of accumulated
sediments. The outlet shall be designed to minimize clogging, vandalism and
maintenance.
         B.   The basin design shall incorporate the following features to
maximize multiple uses, aesthetics, safety and maintainability.
            1.   Basin side slopes above the permanent pool shall have a run to
rise ratio of 4:1 or flatter.
            2.   The perimeter of all permanent pool areas deeper than four
feet shall be surrounded by an aquatic bench that extends at least eight feet
and no more than 15 feet outward from the normal water edge. The eight feet
wide portion of the aquatic bench closest to the shoreline shall have an
average depth of six inches below the permanent pool to promote the growth of
aquatic vegetation. The remainder of the aquatic bench shall be no more than 15
inches below the permanent pool to minimize drowning risk to individuals who
accidentally or intentionally enter the basin, and to limit growth of dense
vegetation in a manner that allows waves and mosquito predators to pass through
the vegetation. The maximum slope of the aquatic bench shall be ten (H) to one
(V). The aquatic bench shall be planted with hearty plants comparable to
wetland vegetation that are able to withstand prolonged inundation.
            3.   A forebay designed to allow larger sediment particles to
settle shall be placed at basin inlets. The forebay volume shall be equal to at
least 10% of the water quality volume (WQv).
      (6)   Additional criteria applying to extended conveyance facilities.
         A.   Facilities shall be lined with fine turf-forming, flood-tolerant
grasses.
         B.   Facilities designed according to the extended detention design
drain time shall:
            1.   Not be located in areas where the depth to bedrock and/or
seasonal high water table is less than three feet below the final grade
elevation; and
            2.   Only be allowed where the underlying soil consists of
hydrologic soil group (HSG) A or B, unless the underlying soil is replaced by
at least a two and one-half foot deep layer of soil amendment with a
permeability equivalent to a HSG A or B soil and an underdrain system is
provided.
         C.   Swales and filter strips designed according to the flow through
drain time shall:
            1.   Only be allowed on sites where the total area disturbed is
five acres or less; and
            2.   Be designed to slow and filter runoff flowing through the turf
grasses with a maximum depth of flow no greater than three inches.
         D.   Concentrated runoff shall be converted to sheet flow before
entering an extended conveyance facility designed according to the flow through
drain time.
      (7)   Alterative post-construction BMPs. The applicant may request
approval from the City Engineer for the use of alternative structural post-
construction BMPs if the applicant shows, to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer and with prior written approval from the state’s EPA, that these BMPs
are equivalent in pollutant removal and runoff flow/volume reduction
effectiveness to those listed in Table 2.
   (d)   Storm water quantity control. The comprehensive storm water management
plan shall describe how the proposed storm water management practices are
designed to meet the following requirements for storm water quantity control
for each watershed in the development.
      (1)   The peak discharge rate of runoff from the critical storm and all
more frequent storms occurring under post-development conditions shall not
exceed the peak discharge rate of runoff from a one-year, 24-hour storm
occurring on the same development drainage area under pre-development
conditions.
      (2)   Storms of less frequent occurrence (longer return periods) than the
critical storm, up to the 100-year, 24-hour storm shall have peak runoff
discharge rates no greater than the peak runoff rates from equivalent size
storms under pre-development conditions. The one-, two-, five-, ten-, 25-, 50-
and 100-year storms shall be considered in designing a facility to meet this
requirement.
      (3)   The critical storm for each specific development drainage area
shall be determined as follows.
         A.   Determine, using a curve number-based hydrologic method that
generates hydrographs, or other hydrologic method approved by the City
Engineer, the total volume (acre-feet) of runoff from a one-year, 24-hour storm
occurring on the development drainage area before and after development. These
calculations shall meet the following standards:
            1.   Calculations shall include the lot coverage assumptions used
for full build-out as proposed;
            2.   Calculations shall be based on the entire contributing
watershed to the development area;
            3.   Curve numbers for the pre-development condition must reflect
the average type of land use over the past ten years and not only the current
land use; and
            4.   To account for future post-construction improvements to the
site, calculations shall assume an impervious surface such as asphalt or
concrete for all parking areas and driveways, regardless of the surface
proposed in the site description.
         B.   From the volume determined in (d)(3)A. above, determine the
percent increase in volume of runoff due to development. Using the percentage,
select the 24-hour critical storm from Table 3.
Table 3: 24-Hour Critical Storm
If the Percentage of Increase in Volume of Runoff
is:                                               The Critical Storm will be:
Equal to or Greater Than: and Less Than:
Table 3: 24-Hour Critical Storm
If the Percentage of Increase in Volume of Runoff
is:                                               The Critical Storm will be:
Equal to or Greater Than: and Less Than:
                          10                      1 year
10                        20                      2 year
20                        50                      5 year
50                        100                     10 year
100                       250                     25 year
If the Percentage of Increase in Volume of Runoff
is:                                               The Critical Storm will be:
Equal to or Greater Than: and Less Than:
250                       500                     50 year
500                       —                     100 year
For example, if the percent increase between the pre- and post-development
runoff volume for a 1-year storm is 35%, the critical storm is a 5-year
storm. The peak discharge rate of runoff for all storms up to this frequency
shall be controlled so as not to exceed the peak discharge rate from the 1-
year frequency storm under pre-development conditions in the development
drainage area. The post-development runoff from all less frequent storms need
only be controlled to meet pre-development peak discharge rates for each of
those same storms.
 
   (e)   Storm water management on redevelopment projects. Comprehensive storm
water management plans for redevelopment projects shall reduce existing site
impervious areas by at least 20%. Where site conditions prevent the reduction
of impervious area, then storm water management practices shall be implemented
to provide storm water quality control facilities for at least 20% of the
site’s impervious area. When a combination of impervious area reduction and
storm water quality control facilities is used, the combined area shall equal
or exceed 20% of the site. Where conditions prevent impervious area reduction
or on-site storm water management for redevelopment projects, practical
alternatives as detailed in §
1334.10 may be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.10  ALTERNATING ACTIONS.
   (a)   When the city determines that site constraints compromise the intent
of this regulation, off-site alternatives may be used that result in an
improvement of water quality and a reduction of storm water quantity. Such
alternatives shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall achieve the same level of storm water quantity and quality
control that would be achieved by the on-site controls required under this
regulation; and
      (2)   Implemented in the drainage area of the proposed development
project to the maximum extent practicable.
   (b)   Alternative actions may include, but are not limited to, the
following. All alternative actions shall be approved by the City Engineer:
      (1)   Fees, in an amount specified by the city to be applied to
community-wide storm water management practices;
      (2)   Implementation of off-site storm water management practices and/or
the retrofit of an existing practice to increase- quality and quantity control;
      (3)   Stream, floodplain or wetland restoration; and
      (4)   Acquisition or conservation easements on protected open space
significantly contributing to storm water control such as wetland complexes.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.11  EASEMENTS.
   (a)   Access to storm water management practices as required by the City
Engineer for inspections and maintenance shall be secured by easements.
   (b)   The following conditions shall apply to all easements:
      (1)   Easements shall be included in the inspection and maintenance
agreement submitted with the comprehensive storm water management plan.
      (2)   Easements shall be approved by the city prior to approval of a
final plat and shall be recorded with the County Auditor and on all property
deeds.
      (3)   Unless otherwise required by the City Engineer, access easements
between a public right-of-way and all storm water management practices shall be
no less than 25 feet wide. The easement shall also incorporate the entire
practice plus an additional 25-foot wide band around the perimeter of the storm
water management practice.
      (4)   The easement shall be graded and/or stabilized as necessary to
allow maintenance equipment to access and manipulate around and within each
facility, as defined in the inspection and maintenance agreement for the site.
      (5)   Easements to structural storm water management practices shall be
restricted against the construction therein of buildings, fences, walls and
other structures that may obstruct the free flow of storm water and the passage
of inspectors and maintenance equipment; and against the changing of final
grade from that described by the final grading plan approved by the city. Any
re-grading and/or obstruction placed within a maintenance easement may be
removed by the city at the property owners’ expense.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.12  MAINTENANCE AND FINAL INSPECTION APPROVAL.
   To receive final inspection and acceptance of any project, or portion
thereof, the following must be completed and provided to the City Engineer.
   (a)   Final stabilization must be achieved and all permanent storm water
management practices must be installed and made functional, as determined by
the City Engineer and per the approved comprehensive storm water management
plan.
   (b)   An as-built certification, including a survey and inspection, must be
sealed, signed and dated by a professional engineer and a professional surveyor
with a statement certifying that the storm water management practices, as
designed and installed, meet the requirements of the comprehensive storm water
management plan approved by the City Engineer. In evaluating this
certification, the City Engineer may require the submission of a new set of
storm water practice calculations if he or she determines that the design was
altered significantly from the approved comprehensive storm water management
plan. The as-built survey must provide the location, dimensions and bearing of
such practices and include the entity responsible for long-term maintenance as
detailed in the inspection and maintenance agreement.
   (c)   A copy of the complete and recorded inspection and maintenance
agreement as specified in §
1334.08 must be provided to the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.13  ON-GOING INSPECTIONS.
   The city shall inspect storm water management practices periodically. Upon
finding a malfunction or other need for maintenance, the city shall provide
written notification to the responsible party, as detailed in the inspection
and maintenance agreement, of the need for maintenance. Upon notification, the
responsible party shall have five working days, or other mutually agreed upon
time, to makes repairs or submit a plan with detailed action items and
established time lines. Should repairs not be made within this time, or a plan
approved by the City Engineer for these repairs not be in place, the city may
undertake the necessary repairs and assess the responsible party.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.14  FEES.
   The comprehensive storm water management plan review, filing and inspection
fee is part of a complete submittal and is required to be submitted to the city
before the review process begins. The schedule of fees shall be established by
a separate ordinance adopted by Council.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.15  BOND.
   (a)   If a comprehensive storm water management plan is required by this
regulation, soil-disturbing activities shall not be permitted until a cash bond
of 5% of the total project cost has been deposited with the city’s Building
Department. This bond shall be posted for the city to perform the obligations
otherwise to be performed by the owner of the development area as stated in
this regulation and to allow all work to be performed as needed in the event
that the applicant fails to comply with the provisions of this regulation. The
storm water bond will be returned when the following three criteria are met:
      (1)   After 80% of the lots of the project have been complete or 100% of
the total project has been permanently stabilized or three years from the time
of permanent stabilization have passed;
      (2)   An as built inspection of all water quality practices is conducted
by the City Engineer; and
      (3)   An inspection and maintenance agreement signed by the developer,
the contractor, the city and the private owner or homeowners association who
will take long term responsibility for these BMPs is accepted by the City
Engineer.
   (b)   Once these criteria are met, the applicant shall be reimbursed all
bond moneys that were not used for any part of the project. If all of these
criteria are not met after three years of permanent stabilization of the site,
the city may use the bond moneys to fix any outstanding issues with all storm
water management structures on the site and the remainder of the bond shall be
given to the private lot owner/homeowners association for the purpose of long
term maintenance of the project.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.16  INSTALLATION OF WATER QUALITY BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The applicant may not direct runoff through any water quality structures or
portions thereof that would be degraded by construction site sediment until the
entire area tributary to the structure has reached final stabilization as
determined by the City Engineer. This occurs after the completion of the final
grade at the site, after all of the utilities are installed, and the site is
subsequently stabilized with vegetation or other appropriate methods. The
developer must provide documentation acceptable to the City Engineer to
demonstrate that the site is completely stabilized. Upon this proof of
compliance, the water quality structure(s) may be completed and placed into
service.  Upon completion of installation of these practices, all disturbed
areas and/or exposed soils caused by the installation of these practices must
be stabilized within two days.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.17  VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated any of
the provisions of this regulation, or fail to comply with any of such
provisions or with any lawful requirements of any public authority made
pursuant to this regulation, or knowingly use or cause or permit the use of any
lands in violation of this regulation or in violation of any permit granted
under this regulation.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.18  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, determination or any other
action or inaction by the city in relation to this regulation may appeal to the
Court of Common Pleas. Such an appeal shall be made in conformity with Ohio
R.C. § 2506. Written notice of appeal shall be served on the city.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1334.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm, entity or corporation, including but not limited to,
the owner of the property, his agents and assigns, occupant, property manager
and any contractor or subcontractor who violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this regulation is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and
shall be fined no more than $500 or imprisoned for no more than 60 days, or
both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   The imposition of any other penalties provided herein shall not
preclude the city instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of
proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful development, or to restrain, correct
or abate a violation, or to require compliance with the provisions of this
regulation or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations or the
orders of the city.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-30-2017)
CHAPTER 1335:  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROLS
Section
1335.01   Purpose and scope
1335.02   Definitions
1335.03   Disclaimer of liability
1335.04   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
1335.05   Development of storm water pollution prevention plans
1335.06   Application procedures
1335.07   Compliance with state and federal regulations
1335.08   Storm water pollution prevention plan
1335.09   Performance standards
1335.10   Abbreviated storm water pollution prevention plan
1335.11   Fees
1335.12   Bond
1335.13   Enforcement
1335.14   Violations
1335.15   Appeals
 
1335.99   Penalty
§ 1335.01  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish technically feasible and
economically reasonable standards to achieve a level of erosion and sediment
control that will minimize damage to property and degradation of water
resources and wetlands, and will promote and maintain the health and safety of
the citizens of the city.
   (b)   This chapter will:
      (1)   Allow development while minimizing increases in erosion and
sedimentation; and
      (2)   Reduce water quality impacts to receiving water resources and
wetlands that may be caused by new development or redevelopment activities.
   (c)   This chapter applies to all parcels used or being developed, either
wholly or partially, for new or relocated projects involving highways,
underground cables or pipelines; subdivisions or larger common plans of
development; industrial, commercial, institutional or residential projects;
building activities on farms; redevelopment activities; general clearing; and
all other uses that are not specifically exempted in
division (d) below.
   (d)   This chapter does not apply to activities regulated by, and in
compliance with, the state’s Sediment Pollution Abatement Rules.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABBREVIATED STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWP3).  The written
document that sets forth the plans and practices to be used to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   ACRE. A measurement of area equaling 43,560 square feet.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).  Schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices (both
structural and non-structural) to prevent or reduce the pollution of water
resources and wetlands. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
procedures and practices to control facility and/or construction site runoff,
spillage or leaks; sludge or waste disposal; or drainage from raw material
storage.
   COMMUNITY. Throughout this chapter, this shall refer to the City of East
Cleveland, its designated representatives, boards or commissions.
   CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE.  The permitted points of ingress and egress to
development areas regulated under this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA.  A parcel or contiguous parcels owned by one person or
persons, or operated as one development unit, and used or being developed for
commercial, industrial, residential, institutional or other construction or
alteration that changes runoff characteristics.
   DISTURBED AREA.  An area of land subject to erosion due to the removal of
vegetative cover and/or soil disturbing activities.
   DRAINAGE.
      (1)   The area of land contributing surface water to a specific point.
      (2)   The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
surface or subsurface drains.
   EROSION. The process by which the land surface is worn away by the action of
wind, water, ice, gravity or any combination of those forces.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.  The control of soil, both mineral and
organic, to minimize the removal of soil from the land surface and to prevent
its transport from a disturbed area by means of wind, water, ice, gravity or
any combination of those forces.
   FINAL STABILIZATION.  All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of at least
80% coverage for the area has been established or equivalent stabilization
measures, such as the use of mulches or geotextiles, have been employed.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.  A professional landscape architect registered in the
State of Ohio.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE.  A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at different
times on different schedules under one plan.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE.  The level of pollutant reduction that site
owners of small municipal separate storm sewer systems regulated fewer than 40
C.F.R. Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124, referred to as NPDES Storm Water Phase H,
must meet.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES).  A regulator
program in the Federal Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., that
prohibits the discharge of pollutants into surface waters of the United States
without a permit.
   PARCEL. A tract of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a use,
building or group of buildings and their accessory uses and buildings as a
unit, together with, such open spaces and driveways as are provided and
required. A PARCEL may contain more than one contiguous lot individually
identified by a “permanent parcel number” assigned by the County Auditor’s
office.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, trust, commission, board, public
or private partnership, joint venture, agency, unincorporated association,
municipal corporation, county or state agency, the federal government, other
legal entity or an agent thereof.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct sections, with the
stabilization of each section before the clearing of the next.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A professional engineer registered in the State of
Ohio.
   RAINWATER AND LAND DEVELOPMENT.  The state’s standards for storm water
management, land development and urban stream protection. The most current
edition of these standards shall be used with this chapter.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and is eventually conveyed to water resources or
wetlands.
   SEDIMENT. The soils or other surface materials that are transported or
deposited by the action of wind, water, ice, gravity or any combination of
those forces, as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION. The deposition or settling of sediment.
   SETBACK. A designated transition area around water resources or wetlands
that is left in a natural, usually vegetated, state so as to protect the water
resources or wetlands from runoff pollution. Soil disturbing activities in this
area are restricted by this chapter.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. An entity organized under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 1515 referring to either the Soil and Water Conservation District Board
or its designated employee(s). Hereafter referred to as COUNTY SWCD .
   SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Clearing, grading, excavating, filling or other
alteration of the earth’s surface where natural or human-made ground cover is
destroyed and that may result in, or contribute to, erosion and sediment
pollution.
   STABILIZATION. The use of BMPs, such as seeding and mulching, that reduce or
prevent soil erosion by water, wind, ice, gravity or a combination of those
forces.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SW3).  The written document that sets
forth the plans and practices to be used to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   UNSTABLE SOILS.  A portion of land that is identified by the City Engineer
as prone to slipping, sloughing or landslides, or is identified by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation Service methodology as
having low soil strength.
   WETLAND. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas
(40 C.F.R. Part 232, as amended).
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.03  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law. The
provisions of this chapter are promulgated to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any individual or
for the benefit of any particular parcel of property
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.04  CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Where this chapter is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions shall prevail.
   (b)   If any clause, section or provision of this chapter is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (c)   This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a private or public nuisance on their property, and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate
such a nuisance.
   (d)   Failure of the city to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the site owner
from the responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the city, its officers, employees, or agents being
responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.05  DEVELOPMENT OF STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLANS.
   (a)   This chapter requires that a storm water pollution prevention plan be
developed and implemented for all parcels of one acre or more and on which any
regulated activity is proposed.
   (b)   The following activities shall submit an abbreviated storm water
pollution prevention plan:
      (1)   New single-family residential construction regardless of parcel
size. If such activities disturb one acre or more, or are part of a larger
common plan of development or sale disturbing one acre or more, a state EPA
construction site general permit and a storm water pollution prevention plan
may be required;
      (2)   Additions or accessory buildings for single-family residential
construction regardless of parcel size. If such activities disturb one acre or
more, or are part of a larger common plan of development or sale disturbing one
acre or more, a state’s EPA construction site general permit and a storm water
pollution prevention plan may be required;
      (3)   All nonresidential construction on parcels of less than one acre;
and
      (4)   General clearing activities not related to construction and
regardless of parcel size. If such activities disturb one acre or more, or are
part of a larger common plan of development or sale disturbing one acre or
more, a state EPA construction site general permit and a storm water pollution
prevention plan may be required.
   (c)   Activities disturbing one tenth or less of an acre are not required to
submit a storm water pollution prevention plan or an abbreviated storm water
pollution prevention plan, unless required by the City Engineer. These
activities must comply with all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.06  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Soil disturbing activities submitting a storm water pollution
prevention plan. The applicant shall submit two sets of the SWP3 to the city
and two sets of the SWP3 and the applicable fees to the county SWCD as follow.
      (1)   For subdivisions: after the approval of the preliminary plans and
with submittal of the improvement plans;
      (2)   For other construction projects: before issuance of a building
permit by the Building Commissioner; and
      (3)   For general clearing projects: prior to issuance of a building
permit by the Building Commissioner.
   (b)   Soil disturbing activities submitting an abbreviated storm water
pollution prevention plan. The applicant shall submit two sets of the
abbreviated SWP3 to the city and two sets of the abbreviated SWP3 and the
applicable fees to the county SWCD as follows:
      (1)   For single-family home construction: before issuance of a building
permit by the Building Commissioner;
      (2)   For other construction projects: before issuance of a building
permit by the Building Commissioner; and
      (3)   For general clearing projects: prior to issuance of a building
permit by the Building Commissioner.
   (c)   Review of plans. The city and the county SWCD shall review the plans
submitted under divisions (a) or (b) above for conformance with this chapter
and approve, or return for revisions with comments and recommendations for
revisions. A plan rejected because of deficiencies shall receive a narrative
report from the county SWCD stating specific problems and the procedures for
filing a revised plan.
   (d)   Approval required. Soil disturbing activities shall not begin and
building and construction permits shall not be issued without an approved SWP3
or abbreviated SWP3.
   (e)   Compliance with common plan. SWP3 for individual sublots in a
subdivision will not be approved unless the larger common plan of development
or sale containing the sublot is in compliance with this chapter.
   (f)   Approval valid for one year. Approvals issued in accordance with this
chapter shall remain valid for one year from the date of approval.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.07  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Approvals issued in accordance with this chapter do not relieve the
applicant of responsibility for obtaining all other necessary permits and/or
approvals from the state’s EPA, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and other
federal, state and/or county agencies. If requirements vary, the most
restrictive requirement shall prevail.
   (b)   These permits may include, but are not limited to, those listed below.
All submittals are required to show proof of compliance with these state and
federal regulations shall be submitted with storm water pollution prevention
plans or abbreviated storm water pollution prevention plans.
      (1)   State EPA NPDES permits authorizing storm water discharges
associated with construction activity or the most current version thereof.
Proof of compliance with these requirements shall be the applicant’s notice of
intent (NOI) number from state’s EPA, a copy of the state’s EPA Director’s
authorization letter for the NPDES permit or a letter from the site owner
certifying and explaining why the NPDES permit is not applicable.
      (2)   Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341. Proof
of compliance shall be a copy of the state’s EPA water quality-certification
application tracking number, public notice, project approval or a letter from
the site owner certifying that a qualified professional has surveyed the site
and determined that § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341, is
not applicable. Wetlands and other waters of the United States shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the
time an application is made under this chapter.
      (3)   State EPA isolated wetland permit. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the state EPA’s isolated wetland permit application tracking number,
public notice, project approval or a letter from the site owner certifying that
a qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that the state
EPA’s isolated wetlands permit is not applicable. Isolated wetlands shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the
time an application is made under this chapter.
      (4)   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344. Proof
of compliance shall be a copy of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers individual
permit application, public notice or project approval, if an individual permit
is required for the development project. If an individual permit is not
required, the site owner shall submit proof of compliance with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineer’s Nationwide Permit Program. This shall include one of the
following:
         A.   A letter from the site owner certifying that a qualified
professional has surveyed the site and determined that § 404 of the Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, is not applicable; and
         B.   A site plan showing that any proposed fill of waters of the
United States conforms to the general and special conditions specified in the
applicable nationwide permit. Wetlands and other waters of the United States
shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
at the time an application is made under this chapter.
      (5)   The state’s dam safety law. Proof of compliance shall be a copy of
the ODNR Division of Water permit application tracking number, a copy of the
project approval letter from the ODNR Division of Water or a letter from the
site owner certifying and explaining why the state’s dam safety law is not
applicable.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.08  STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   (a)   In order to control sediment pollution of water resources and
wetlands, the applicant shall submit a SWP3 in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (b)   The SWP3 shall be certified by a professional engineer, a registered
surveyor, certified professional erosion and sediment control specialist, or a
registered landscape architect.
   (c)   The SWP3 shall incorporate measures as recommended by the most current
edition of Rainwater and Land Development as published by the state’s
department of Natural Resources and shall include the following information.
      (1)   Site description. The SWP3 shall provide:
         A.   A description of the nature and type of the construction activity
(e.g., residential, shopping mall, highway and the like);
         B.   Total area of the site and the area of the site that is expected
to be disturbed (i.e., grubbing, clearing, excavation, filling or grading,
including off-site borrow areas);
         C.   An estimate of the impervious area and percent of imperviousness
created by the soil-disturbing activity;
         D.   Existing data describing the soil and, if available, the quality
of any known pollutant discharge from the site such as that which may result
from previous contamination caused by prior land uses;
         E.   A description of prior land uses at the site;
         F.   An implementation schedule which describes the sequence of major
soil-disturbing operations (i.e., grubbing, excavating, grading, utilities and
infrastructure installation) and the implementation of erosion and sediment
controls to be employed during each operation of the sequence;
         G.   The location and name of the immediate receiving stream or
surface water(s) and the first subsequent receiving water(s);
         H.   The aerial (plan view) extent and description of wetlands or
other special aquatic sites at or near the site which will be disturbed or
which will receive discharges from disturbed areas of the project;
         I.   For subdivided developments where the SWP3 does not call for a
centralized sediment control capable of controlling multiple individual lots, a
detail drawing of atypical individual lot showing standard individual lot
erosion and sediment control practices;
         J.   Location and description of any storm water discharges associated
with dedicated asphalt and dedicated concrete plants associated with the
development area and the best management practices to address pollutants in
these storm water discharges; and
         K.   Site map showing:
            1.   Limits of soil-disturbing activity of the site, including off-
site spoil and borrow areas;
            2.   Soils types should be depicted for all areas of the site,
including locations of unstable or highly erodible soils;
            3.   Existing and proposed one-foot contours. This must include a
delineation of drainage watersheds expected during and after major grading
activities as well as the size of each drainage watershed in acres;
            4.   Surface water locations, including springs, wetlands, streams,
lakes, water wells, and the like, on or within 200 feet of the site, including
the boundaries of wetlands or stream channels and first subsequent named
receiving water(s) the applicant intends to fill or relocate for which the
applicant is seeking approval from the Army Corps of Engineers and/or the
state’s EPA;
            5.   Existing and planned locations of buildings, roads, parking
facilities, and utilities;
            6.   The location of all erosion and sediment control practices,
including the location of areas likely to require temporary stabilization
during the course of site development;
            7.   Sediment ponds, including their sediment settling volume and
contributing drainage area;
            8.   Areas designated for the storage or disposal of solid,
sanitary and toxic wastes, including dumpster areas, areas designated for
cement truck washout and vehicle fueling;
            9.   The location of designated stoned construction entrances where
the vehicles will ingress and egress the construction site; and
            10.   The location of any in-stream activities including stream
crossings.
      (2)   A soils engineering report. The City Engineer may require the SWP3
to include a Soils Engineering Report based upon his or her determination that
the conditions of the soils are unknown or unclear to the extent that
additional information is required to protect against erosion or other hazards.
This report shall be based on adequate and necessary test borings, and shall
contain all the information listed below. Recommendations included in the
report and approved by the City Engineer shall be incorporated in the grading
plans and/or other specifications for site development.
         A.   Data regarding the nature, distribution, strength and credibility
of existing soils;
         B.   If applicable, data regarding the nature, distribution, strength
and erodibility of the soil to be placed on the site;
         C.   Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures;
         D.   Conclusions and recommended designs for interim soil
stabilization devices and measures, and for permanent soil stabilization after
construction is completed;
         E.   Design criteria for corrective measures when necessary; and
         F.   Opinions and recommendations covering the stability of the site.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.09  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (a)   The SWP3 must contain a description of the controls appropriate for
each construction operation and the applicant must implement such controls. The
SWP3 must clearly describe for each major construction activity the appropriate
control measures; the general sequence during the construction process under
which the measures will be implemented; and the contractor responsible for
implementation (e.g., contractor A will clear land and install perimeter
controls and contractor B will maintain perimeter controls until final
stabilization).
   (b)   The controls shall include the following minimum components.
      (1)   Non-structural preservation measures. The SWP3 must make use of
practices that preserve the existing natural condition to the maximum extent
practicable. Such practices may include preserving riparian areas, preserving
existing vegetation and vegetative buffer strips, phasing of construction
operations in order to minimize the amount of disturbed land at any one time,
and designation of tree preservation areas or other protective clearing or
grabbing practices.
      (2)   Erosion control practices. The SWP3 must make use of erosion
controls that are capable of providing cover over disturbed soils. A
description of control practices designed to re-stabilize disturbed areas after
grading or construction shall be included in the SWP3. The SWP3 must provide
specifications for stabilization of all disturbed areas of the site and provide
guidance as to which method of stabilization will be employed for any time of
the year. Such practices may include: temporary seeding, permanent seeding,
mulching, matting, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer strips, phasing of
construction operations, the use of construction entrances, and the use of
alternative ground cover. Erosion control practices must meet the following
requirements.
         A.   Stabilization. Disturbed areas must be stabilized as specified in
Tables 1 and 2 below.
 
Table 1: Permanent Stabilization
Area Requiring Permanent Stabilization  Time Frame to Apply Erosion Controls
Any area that will lie dormant for one  Within seven days of the most recent
year or more                            disturbance.
Any area within 50 feet of a stream and Within two days of reaching final
at final grade.                         grade.
Any area at final grade.                Within seven days of reaching final
                                        grade within that area.
 
 
Table 2: Temporary Stabilization
Area Requiring Temporary Stabilization   Time Frame to Apply Erosion Controls
Any disturbed area within 50 feet of a   Within two days of the most recent
stream and not at final grade.           disturbance if that area will remain
                                         idle for more than 21 days.
For all construction activities, any
disturbed area, including soil           Within seven days of the most recent
stockpiles that will be dormant for more disturbance within the area.
than 21 days but less than one year, and
not within 50 feet of a stream.
Disturbed areas that will be idle over   Prior to November 1.
winter.
Note: Where vegetative stabilization techniques may cause structural
instability or are otherwise unobtainable, alternative stabilization
techniques must be employed. These techniques may include mulching or erosion
matting.
 
         B.   Permanent stabilization of conveyance channels. Applicants shall
undertake special measures to stabilize channels and outfalls and prevent
erosive flows. Measures may include seeding, dormant seeding, mulching, erosion
control matting, sodding, riprap, natural channel design with bio engineering
techniques, or rock check dams, all as defined in the most recent edition of
Rainwater and Land Development or the Field Office Technical Guide available at
www.nrcs.usda.gov/ technical/efotg/.
      (3)   Runoff control practices. The SWP3 shall incorporate measures that
control the flow of runoff from disturbed areas so as to prevent erosion. Such
practices may include rock check dams, pipe slope drains, diversions to direct
flow away from exposed soils and protective grading practices. These practices
shall divert runoff away from disturbed areas and steep slopes where
practicable.
      (4)   Sediment control practices. The SWP3 shall include a description
of, and detailed drawings for, all structural practices that shall store
runoff, allowing sediments to settle and/or divert flows away from exposed
soils or otherwise limit runoff from exposed areas. Structural practices shall
be used to control erosion and trap sediment from a site remaining disturbed
for more than 14 days. Such practices may include, among others: sediment
settling ponds, silt fences, storm drain inlet protection and earth diversion
dikes or channels which direct runoff to a sediment settling pond. All sediment
control practices must be capable of ponding runoff in order to be considered
functional. Earth diversion dikes or channels alone are not considered a
sediment control practice unless used in conjunction with a sediment settling
pond. Sediment control practices must meet the following requirements.
         A.   Timing. Sediment control structures shall be functional
throughout the course of earth disturbing activity. Sediment basins and
perimeter sediment barriers shall be implemented prior to grading and within
seven days from the start of grubbing. They shall continue to function until
the up slope development area is re-stabilized. As construction progresses and
the topography is altered, appropriate controls must be constructed or existing
controls altered to address the changing drainage patterns.
         B.   Sediment settling ponds. Concentrated storm water runoff and
runoff from drainage areas that exceed the design capacity of silt fence or
inlet protection, as determined in Table 3 below, shall pass through a sediment
settling pond or equivalent best management practice upon approval from the
City Engineer and/or the county SWCD. The sediment-settling pond shall be sized
to provide at least 67 cubic yards of storage per acre of total contributing
drainage area. When determining the total contributing drainage area, off-site
areas and areas which remain undisturbed by construction activity must be
included unless runoff from these areas is diverted away from the sediment
settling pond and is not co-mingled with sediment-laden runoff. The depth of
the sediment-settling pond must be less than or equal to five feet. The
configuration between the inlets and the outlet of the basin must provide at
least two units of length for each one unit of width (> 2:1 length: width
ratio). Sediment must be removed from the sediment-settling pond when the
design capacity has been reduced by 40%. This limit is typically reached when
sediment occupies one-half of the basin depth. When designing sediment settling
ponds, the applicant must consider public safety, especially as it relates to
children, as a design factor for the sediment basin and alternative sediment
controls must be used where site limitations would preclude a safe design. The
use of a combination of sediment and erosion control measures in order to
achieve maximum pollutant removal is encouraged.
         C.   Silt fence and diversions. Sheet flow runoff from denuded areas
shall be intercepted by silt fence or diversions to protect adjacent
properties, water resources and wetlands from sediment transported via sheet
flow. Where intended to provide sediment control, silt fence shall be placed on
a level contour and shall be capable of temporarily ponding runoff. The
relationship between the maximum drainage areas to silt fence for a particular
slope range is shown in Table 3 below. Storm water diversion practices shall be
used to keep runoff away from disturbed areas and steep slopes. Such devices,
which include swales, dikes or berms, may receive storm water runoff from areas
up to ten acres.
 
Table 3: Maximum Drainage Area to Silt Fence
Maximum Drainage Area (Acres) to 100 Range of Slope for a Drainage Area (%)
Linear Feet of Silt Fence
0.5                                  < 2%
0.25                                 > 2% but < 20%
0.125                                > 20% but < 50%
 
         D.   Inlet protection. Erosion and sediment control practices, such as
boxed inlet protection, shall be installed to minimize sediment-laden water
entering active storm drain systems. Straw or hay bales are not acceptable
forms of inlet protection.
         E.   Off-site tracking of sediment and dust control. Best management
practices must be implemented to ensure sediment is not tracked off-site and
that dust is controlled. These best management practices must include, but are
not limited to, the following.
            1.   Construction entrances shall be built and shall serve as the
only permitted points of ingress and egress to the development area. These
entrances shall be built of a stabilized pad of aggregate stone or recycled
concrete or cement sized greater than two inches in diameter, placed over a
geotextile fabric, and constructed in conformance with specifications in the
most recent edition of the Rainwater and Land Development Manual.
            2.   Streets directly adjacent to construction entrances and
receiving traffic from the development area shall be cleaned daily to remove
sediment tracked off-site. If applicable, the catch basins on these streets
nearest to the construction entrances shall also be cleaned weekly. Based on
site conditions, the City Engineer and/or the county’s SWCD may require
additional best management practices to control off-site tracking and dust.
These additional BMPs may include the following.
            3.   Silt fence or construction fence installed around the
perimeter of the development area to ensure that all vehicle traffic adheres to
designated construction entrances.
            4.   Designated wheel-washing areas. Wash water from these areas
must be directed to a designated sediment trap, the sediment-settling pond or
to a sump pump for dewatering in conformance with division (b)(7) below.
            5.   Applicants shall take all necessary measures to comply with
applicable regulations regarding fugitive dust emissions, including obtaining
necessary permits for such emissions. The City Engineer and/or the county’s
SWCD may require dust controls including the use of water trucks to wet
disturbed areas, tarping stockpiles, temporary stabilization of disturbed areas
and regulation of the speed of vehicles on the site.
         F.   Stream protection. Construction vehicles shall avoid water
resources and wetlands. If the applicant is permitted to disturb areas within
50 feet of a water resource or wetland, the following conditions shall be
addressed in the SWP3.
            1.   All BMPs and stream crossings shall be designed as specified
in the most recent edition of the Rainwater and Land Development Manual.
            2.   Structural practices shall be designated and implemented on
site to protect water resources or wetlands from the impacts of sediment
runoff.
            3.   No structural sediment controls (e.g., the installation of
silt fence or sediment settling pond in-stream) shall be used in a water
resource or wetland.
            4.   Where stream crossings for roads or utilities are necessary
and permitted, the project shall be designed such that the number of stream
crossings and the width of the disturbance are minimized.
            5.   Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed if water
resources or wetlands will be crossed by construction vehicles during
construction.
            6.   Construction of bridges, culverts or sediment control
structures shall not place soil, debris or other particulate material into or
close to the water resources or wetlands in such a manner that it may slough,
slip or erode.
         G.   Modifying controls. If periodic inspections or other information
indicates a control has been used inappropriately or incorrectly, the applicant
shall replace or modify the control for site conditions.
      (5)   Non-sediment pollutant controls. No solid or liquid waste,
including building materials, shall be discharged in storm water runoff. The
applicant must implement site best management practices to prevent toxic
materials, hazardous materials or other debris from entering water resources or
wetlands. These practices shall include, but are not limited to, the following.
         A.   Waste materials. A covered dumpster shall be made available for
the proper disposal of garbage, plaster, drywall, grout, gypsum and other waste
materials.
         B.   Concrete truck wash out. The washing of concrete material into a
street, catch basin or other public facility or natural resource is prohibited.
A designated area for concrete washout shall be made available.
         C.   Fuel/liquid tank storage. All fuel/liquid tanks and drums shall
be stored in a marked storage area. A dike shall be constructed around this
storage area with a minimum capacity equal to 110% of the volume of all
containers in the storage area.
         D.   Toxic or hazardous waste disposal. Any toxic or hazardous waste
shall be disposed of properly.
         E.   Contaminated soils disposal and runoff. Contaminated soils from
redevelopment sites shall be disposed of properly. Runoff from contaminated
soils shall not be discharged from the site. Proper permits shall be obtained
for development projects on solid waste landfill sites or redevelopment sites.
      (6)   Compliance with other requirements. The SWP3 shall be consistent
with applicable state and/or local waste disposal, sanitary sewer or septic
system regulations, including provisions prohibiting waste disposal by open
burning, and shall provide for the proper disposal of contaminated soils
located within the development area.
      (7)   Trench and ground water control. There shall be no sediment-laden
or turbid discharges to water resources or wetlands resulting from dewatering
activities. If trench or ground water contains sediment, it must pass through a
sediment-settling pond or other equally effective sediment control device,
prior to being discharged from the construction site. Alternatively, sediment
may be removed by settling in place or by dewatering into a sump pit, filter
bag or comparable practice. Ground water dewatering which does not contain
sediment or other pollutants is not required to be treated prior to discharge.
However, care must be taken when discharging ground water to ensure that it
does not become pollutant-laden by traversing over disturbed soils or other
pollutant sources.
      (8)   Internal inspections. All controls on the site shall be inspected
at least once every seven calendar days and within 24 hours after any storm
event greater than one-half inch of rain per 24-hour period. The applicant
shall assign qualified inspection personnel to conduct these inspections to
ensure that the control practices are functional and to evaluate whether the
SWP3 is adequate, or whether additional control measures are required.
Qualified inspection personnel are individuals with knowledge and experience in
the installation and maintenance of sediment and erosion controls. These
inspections shall meet the following requirements.
         A.   Disturbed areas and areas used for storage of materials that are
exposed to precipitation shall be inspected for evidence of, or the potential
for, pollutants entering the drainage system.
         B.   Erosion and sediment control measures identified in the SWP3
shall be observed to ensure that they are operating correctly. The applicant
shall utilize an inspection form provided by the city or an alternate form
acceptable to the City Engineer.
         C.   Discharge locations shall be inspected to determine whether
erosion and sediment control measures are effective in preventing significant
impacts to the receiving water resource or wetlands.
         D.   Locations where vehicles enter or exit the site shall be
inspected for evidence of off-site vehicle tracking.
         E.   The applicant shall maintain for three years following final
stabilization the results of these inspections, the names and qualifications of
personnel making the inspections, the dates of inspections, major observations
relating to the implementation of the SWP3, a certification as to whether the
facility is in compliance with the SWP3 and information on any incidents of
noncompliance determined by these inspections.
      (9)   Maintenance. The SWP3 shall be designed to minimize maintenance
requirements. All control practices shall be maintained and repaired as needed
to ensure continued performance of their intended function until final
stabilization. All sediment control practices must be maintained in a
functional condition until all up-slope areas they control reach final
stabilization. The applicant shall provide a description of maintenance
procedures needed to ensure the continued performance of control practices and
shall ensure a responsible party and adequate funding to conduct this
maintenance, all as determined by the City Engineer. When inspections reveal
the need for repair, replacement or installation of erosion and sediment
control BMPs, the following procedures shall be followed.
         A.   When practices require repair or maintenance. If an internal
inspection reveals that a control practice is in need of repair or maintenance,
with the exception of a sediment-settling pond, it must be repaired or
maintained within three days of the inspection. Sediment settling ponds must be
repaired or maintained within ten days of the inspection.
         B.   When practices fail to provide their intended function. If an
internal inspection reveals that a control practice fails to perform its
intended function as detailed in the SWP3 and that another, more appropriate
control practice is required, the SWP3 must be amended and the new control
practice must be installed within ten days of the inspection.
         C.   When practices depicted on the SWP3 are not installed. If an
internal inspection reveals that a control practice has not been implemented in
accordance with the schedule, the control practice must be implemented within
ten days from the date of the inspection. If the internal inspection reveals
that the planned control practice is not needed, the record must contain a
statement of explanation as to why the control practice is not needed.
      (10)   Final stabilization. Final stabilization shall be determined by
the City Engineer.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.10  ABBREVIATED STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   (a)   In order to control sediment pollution of water resources and
wetlands, the applicant shall submit an abbreviated SWP3 in accordance with the
requirements of this regulation.
   (b)   The abbreviated SWP3 shall be certified by a professional engineer, a
registered surveyor, certified professional erosion and sediment control
specialist or a registered landscape architect.
   (c)   The abbreviated SWP3 shall include a minimum of the following BMPs.
The city may require other BMPs as site conditions warrant.
      (1)   Construction entrances. Construction entrances shall be built and
shall serve as the only permitted points of ingress and egress to the
development area. These entrances shall be built of a stabilized pad of
aggregate stone or recycled concrete or cement sized greater than two inches in
diameter, placed over a geotextile fabric, and constructed in conformance with
specifications in the most recent edition of the Rainwater and Land Development
Manual.
      (2)   Concrete truck wash out. The washing of concrete material into a
street, catch basin or other public facility or natural resource is prohibited.
A designated area for concrete washout shall be made available.
      (3)   Street sweeping. Streets directly adjacent to construction
entrances and receiving traffic from the development area shall be cleaned
daily to remove sediment tracked off-site. If applicable, the catch-basins on
these streets nearest to the construction entrances shall be cleaned weekly.
      (4)   Stabilization. The development area shall be stabilized as detailed
in Table 4.
 
Table 4: Stabilization
Area Requiring Stabilization             Time Frame to Apply Erosion Controls
Any disturbed area within 50 feet of a   Within two days of the most recent
stream and not at final grade.           disturbance if that area will remain
                                         idle for more than 21 days.
For all construction activities, any
disturbed area, including soil           Within seven days of the most recent
stockpiles that will be dormant for more disturbance within the area.
than 21 days but less than one year, and
not within 50 feet of a stream.
Disturbed areas that will be idle over   Prior to November 1.
winter.
Note: Where vegetative stabilization techniques may cause structural
instability or are otherwise unobtainable, alternative stabilization
techniques must be employed. These techniques may include mulching or erosion
matting.
 
      (5)   Inlet protection. Erosion and sediment control practices, such as
boxed inlet protection, shall be installed to minimize sediment-laden water
entering active storm drain systems. Straw or hay bales are not acceptable
forms of inlet protection.
      (6)   Internal inspection and maintenance. All controls on the
development area shall be inspected at least once every seven calendar days and
within 24 hours after any storm event greater than one-half inch of rain per
24-hour period. Maintenance shall occur as detailed below.
         A.   When practices require repair or maintenance. If the internal
inspection reveals that a control practice is in need of repair or maintenance,
with the exception of a sediment-settling pond, it must be repaired or
maintained within three days of the inspection. Sediment settling ponds must be
repaired or maintained within ten days of the inspection.
         B.   When practices fail to provide their intended function. If the
internal inspection reveals that a control practice fails to perform its
intended function and that another, more appropriate control practice is
required, the abbreviated SWP3 must be amended and the new control practice
must be installed within ten days of the inspection.
         C.   When practices depicted on the abbreviated SWP3 are not
installed. If the internal inspection reveals that a control practice has not
been implemented in accordance with the schedule, the control practice must be
implemented within ten days from the date of the inspection. If the inspection
reveals that the planned control practice is not needed, the record must
contain a statement of explanation as to why the control practice is not
needed.
      (7)   Final stabilization. Final stabilization shall be determined by the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.11  FEES.
   The storm water pollution prevention plan and abbreviated storm water
pollution plan review, filing and inspection fee is part of a complete
submittal and is required to be submitted to the city and the county’s SWCD
before the review process begins. Please consult with City Engineer for current
fee schedule.
(Ord. 15-2007; passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.12  BOND.
   (a)   If a storm water pollution prevention plan or abbreviated storm water
pollution prevention plan is required by this regulation, soil disturbing
activities shall not be permitted until a cash bond has been deposited with the
city’s Building Department. The bond amount shall be a $1,500 minimum, and an
additional $1,500 paid for each subsequent acre or fraction thereof. The bond
will be used for the city to perform the obligations otherwise to be performed
by the owner of the development area as stated in this regulation and to allow
all work to be performed as needed in the event that the applicant fails to
comply with the provisions of this regulation. The cash bond shall be returned,
less the city administrative fees, after all work required by this regulation
has been completed and final stabilization has been reached, all as determined
by the City Engineer.
   (b)   No project subject to this regulation shall commence without a SWP3 or
abbreviated SWP3 approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.13  ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   All development areas may be subject to external inspections by city
and/or the county SWCD to ensure compliance with the approved SWP3 or
abbreviated SWP3.
   (b)   After each external inspection, the city and/or the county SWCD shall
prepare and distribute a status report to the applicant.
   (c)   If an external inspection determines that operations are being
conducted in violation of the approved SWP3 or abbreviated SWP3, the city and/
or the county SWCD may take action as detailed in §
1335.14 below.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.14  VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated
any of the provisions of this chapter, or fail to comply with any of such
provisions or with any lawful requirements of any public authority made
pursuant to this chapter knowingly use or cause or permit the use of any lands
in violation of this chapter or in violation of any permit granted under this
chapter.
   (b)   Upon notice, the Mayor and/or designee may suspend any active soil
disturbing activity for a period not to exceed 90 days, and may require
immediate erosion and sediment control measures whenever he or she determines
that such activity is not meeting the intent of this regulation. Such notice
shall be in writing, shall be given to the applicant and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed. In instances, however, where the
Mayor and/or designee finds that immediate action is necessary for public
safety or the public interest, he or she may require that work be stopped upon
verbal order pending issuance of the written notice.
(Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)  Penalty, see §
1335.99
§ 1335.15  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, determination or any other
action or inaction by the city in relation to this regulation may appeal to the
court of common pleas. Such an appeal shall be made in conformity with Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2506. Written notice of appeal shall be served on the city and a
copy shall be provided to the county SWCD.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1335.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm, entity or corporation, including, but not limited
to, the owner of the property, his or her agents and assigns, occupant,
property manager and any contractor or subcontractor who violates or fails to
comply with any provision of this regulation is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree and shall be fined no more than $500 or imprisoned for no more
than 60 days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
   (b)   The imposition of any other penalties provided herein shall not
preclude the city instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of
proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful development, or to restrain, correct
or abate a violation, or to require compliance with the provisions of this
regulation or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations or the
orders of the city.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 3-30-2017)
CHAPTER 1336:  RIPARIAN SETBACKS
Section
1336.01   Purpose and intent
1336.02   Applicability
1336.03   Definitions
1336.04   Establishment of designated watercourses and riparian setbacks
1336.05   Riparian setback map
1336.06   Applications and site plan
1336.07   Permitted buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing
activities within a riparian setback without a zoning certificate
1336.08   Permitted buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing
activities within a riparian setback with a zoning certificate
1336.09   Buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing activities
prohibited within a riparian setback
1336.10   Inspection of riparian setbacks
1336.11   Nonconforming structures or uses in the riparian setback
Cross-reference:
   Erosion and sediment controls, see
Ch. 1335
   Storm water management, see
Ch. 1334
§ 1336.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (a)   The specific purpose and intent of these regulations is to regulate
buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing activities within
riparian setback areas that would impair the ability of these areas to:
      (1)   Reduce flood impacts by absorbing peak flows, slowing the velocity
of floodwaters and regulating base flow;
      (2)   Assist in stabilizing the banks of designated watercourses to
reduce woody debris from fallen or damaged trees, stream bank erosion and the
downstream transport of sediments eroded from such watercourse banks;
      (3)   Reduce pollutants in designated watercourses during periods of high
flows by filtering, settling and transforming pollutants already present in
such watercourses;
      (4)   Reduce pollutants in designated watercourses by filtering, settling
and transforming pollutants in runoff before they enter such watercourses;
      (5)   Provide designated watercourse habitats with shade and food;
      (6)   Reduce the presence of aquatic nuisance species to maintain a
diverse aquatic system;
      (7)   Provide riparian habitat with a wide array of wildlife by
maintaining diverse and connected riparian vegetation;
      (8)   Minimize encroachment on designated watercourses and limiting the
potential need for invasive measures that may otherwise be necessary to protect
buildings, structures, and uses as well as to reduce the damage to real
property and threats to public health and safety within the affected watershed;
and
      (9)   Preserve and conserve the quality and tree flowing condition of
designated watercourses in the interest of promoting and protecting public
health and safety.
   (b)   These regulations have been enacted to protect and enhance the
functions of riparian areas by providing reasonable controls governing
buildings, structures, uses, and related soil disturbing activities within a
riparian setback along designated watercourses in the city. Due to the
importance of functioning riparian areas, it is the intent and purpose of these
regulations that minimum riparian setbacks be given preference over minimum
front, side, and rear yard setbacks, in consideration of an appeal for a
variance by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.02  APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   These regulations shall apply to all zoning districts.
   (b)   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to all
buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing activities on a lot
containing a designated watercourse, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (c)   The use of any building, structure or lot lawfully existing prior to
the effective date of these regulations may be continued, subject to the
provisions of Chapter 1139.
   (d)   The repair, maintenance, restoration of a building, or uses lawfully
existing prior to the effective date of these regulations may be continued or
completed, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 1139.
   (e)   A use and occupancy certificate or other zoning certificate shall be
issued for any building, structure, use, or related soil disturbing activities
on a lot containing, wholly or partly, a designated watercourse except in
conformity with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (f)   These regulations shall only apply when a riparian setback, as
determined by these regulations, is proposed to be impacted.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN.  Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from
a base flood. The base flood is the flood that has a 1% or greater chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN  shall be
identified by the FEMA maps of the city.
   DAMAGED OR DISEASED TREES.  Trees that have split trunks; broken tops; heart
rot; insect or fungus problems that will lead to imminent death; undercut root
systems that put the tree in imminent danger of falling; lean as a result of
root failure that puts the tree in imminent danger of falling; or any other
condition that puts the tree in imminent danger of being uprooted or falling
into or along a watercourse or on to a building or structure.
   DESIGNATED WATERCOURSE.  A river or stream within the city that is in
conformity with the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER.  Any paved, hardened or structural surface regardless of
its composition including, but not limited to, buildings, roads, driveways,
parking lots, loading/unloading spaces, decks, patios, and swimming pools.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.  Any change to the surface area of a lot
including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of
vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, cut and fill, construction of
buildings or structures, paving, and any other installation of impervious
cover.
   OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.  The governmental agency referred to
herein as the Ohio EPA.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK.  The point of the bank to which the presence and
action of surface water is so continuous as to leave an area marked by erosion,
destruction or prevention of woody terrestrial vegetation, predominance of
aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized characteristic. The ORDINARY HIGH
WATER MARK  defines the bed of a watercourse.
   RIPARIAN AREA.  Naturally vegetated land adjacent to designated watercourses
that, if appropriately sized, helps to stabilize stream banks, limit erosion,
reduce flood size flows and/or filter and settle out runoff pollutants or
performs other functions consistent with the purposes of these regulations.
   RIPARIAN SETBACK .  The real property adjacent to a designated watercourse
located within the area defined by the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (CSWCD) .  The Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Soil and Water Conservation District, organized under R.C. Chapter 1515,
including the Board of Supervisors and its designated employees.
   SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITY.   Clearing, grading, excavating, filling or other
alteration of the earth’s surface where natural or human made groundcover is
destroyed and which may result in, or contribute to, erosion and sediment
pollution.
   UTILITY SERVICE LINES.  Public or private lines servicing septic systems,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water, electricity, natural gas, telephone,
cable television and other digital transmissions, and other utilities on
individual lots as well as public and private lines servicing utilities to more
than one lot.
   WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP).   A facility at the end of a sanitary
collection system, which processes the influent waste and discharges water to a
receiving stream, treated to the standards of the Ohio EPA.
   WATERCOURSE.   Any brook, channel, creek, river, or stream having banks, a
defined bed, and definite direction of flow, either continuously or
intermittently flowing.
   WETLAND.   Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.04  ESTABLISHMENT OF DESIGNATED WATERCOURSES AND RIPARIAN SETBACKS.
   (a)   A designated watercourse shall include one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   All watercourses draining an area equal to or greater than one-half
square mile; or
      (2)   All watercourses draining an area less than one-half square mile
and having a defined bed and bank. In determining if watercourses have a
defined bed and bank, the Building Commissioner may consult with
representatives of the CSWCD or other technical experts.
   (b)   Riparian setbacks on designated watercourses shall be established as
follows:
      (1)   A minimum of 120 feet on each side of all designated watercourses
draining an area equal to or greater than 20 square miles;
      (2)   A minimum of 75 feet on each side of all designated watercourses
draining an area equal to or greater than one-half square mile and up to 20
square miles; and
      (3)   A minimum of 25 feet on each side of all designated watercourses
draining an area less than one-half square mile and having a defined bed and
bank as determined in these regulations.
   (c)   The following regulations shall apply to riparian setbacks:
      (1)   Riparian setbacks shall be measured in a horizontal direction
outward from the ordinary high water mark of a designated watercourse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, riparian setbacks
shall be preserved in their natural state.
      (3)   Where the 100 year floodplain is wider than the minimum riparian
setback on either or both sides of a designated watercourse, the minimum
riparian setback shall be extended to include the outermost boundary of the 100
year floodplain as delineated on the flood hazard boundary map(s) for the
affected area provided by FEMA.
      (4)   Where a wetland is wider than the minimum riparian setback on
either or both sides of a designated watercourse, the minimum riparian setback
shall be extended to include the outermost boundary of the wetland. Wetlands
shall be delineated through a site survey prepared by a qualified wetlands
professional retained by the lot owner using delineation protocols accepted by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the time an application is made under these
regulations.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.05  RIPARIAN SETBACK MAP.
   (a)   The city may create a map identifying designated watercourses and
their riparian setbacks. The riparian setback map may be utilized as a
reference document by the Building Commissioner and the Board of Zoning Appeals
in determining when the riparian setback applies.
   (b)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from amending the riparian
setback map from time to time as may be necessary.
   (c)   If any discrepancy is found between the riparian setback map and these
regulations, or if any discrepancy is found between site conditions and these
regulations, the riparian setback map criteria shall prevail.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.06  APPLICATIONS AND SITE PLAN.
   (a)   The owner shall be responsible for identifying riparian setbacks as
required by these regulations and shall indicate such setbacks on a site plan
submitted to the Building Commissioner. Two copies of the site plan shall be
submitted.  In addition to the requirements set forth in this Planning and
Zoning Code for a use and occupancy certificate or other zoning certificate,
the owner shall provide the following information to the Building Commissioner:
      (1)   A site plan depicting, at a minimum, the following:
         A.   The boundaries of the lot with dimensions;
         B.   The location of all designated watercourses;
         C.   The limits, with dimensions, of the riparian setback;
         D.   The existing topography at intervals of two feet;
         E.   The location and dimensions of any existing and proposed
buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing activities in
relationship to all designated watercourses;
         F.   The description and location, with dimensions plus a calculation
of the total area, of all land development activities, soil disturbance and
impervious cover; and
         G.   If the lot included in the site plan is a part of a platted and
recorded subdivision, the riparian setback, if any, shall be as shown on said
plat.
      (2)   Such other supplementary information as may be required by the
Building Commissioner or the Board of Zoning Appeals to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. Such information may include, but is not
limited to, the following:
         A.   A site plan prepared by a professional engineer, surveyor, soils
scientist, landscape architect or such other qualified professional and shall
be based upon a survey of the affected lot;
         B.   The description and depiction of all erosion and sedimentation
controls plus all storm water management controls, including all temporary and
permanent best management practices; and
         C.   North arrow, scale, date, and stamp bearing the name and
registration number of the professional consultant who prepared the plan shall
be provided.
   (b)   The Building Commissioner, may, in reviewing the site plan, consult
with the CSWCD or such other expert(s) retained by the city.
   (c)   If land development or soil disturbing activities will occur within 50
feet of the outer boundary of the applicable riparian setback as specified in
this chapter, then prior to the initiation of any land development or soil
disturbing activities, the riparian, setback shall be clearly delineated on the
affected lot by the owner with construction fencing as shown on the site plan
and shall be maintained on the lot until the completion of such development or
disturbance activities. No zoning certificate shall be issued until the
riparian setback delineation has been completed on the lot in accordance with
the approved site plan.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.07  PERMITTED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES AND RELATED SOIL DISTURBING
ACTIVITIES WITHIN A RIPARIAN SETBACK WITHOUT A ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   Only the following buildings, structures, uses, and related soil disturbing
activities may be permitted within a riparian setback without a zoning
certificate:
   (a)   Recreational activities: fishing, hunting, picnicking, picnic tables,
picnic shelters, and wildlife observation areas; trails, walkways, and paths
for non-motorized vehicles constructed of pervious materials;
   (b)   Removal of damaged or diseased trees: damaged or diseased trees and
other associated debris may be removed;
   (c)   Maintenance and repairs: maintenance and repair on buildings,
structures, roads, driveways, bridges, culverts, trails, walkways, paths,
wastewater treatment plants and appurtenances, storm sewers, and all other
buildings, structures, and uses lawfully existing at the time of passage of
this regulation, as covered by Chapter 1149, or permitted in the riparian
setback under this chapter or through the granting of a variance;
   (d)   Maintenance and cultivation of lawns, and landscaping: the maintenance
of existing, and the cultivation of new lawns, landscaping, shrubbery, and
trees;
   (e)   On-site waste water treatment plants: on-site waste water treatment
plans subject to the regulations enforced by the County General Health District
or the Ohio EPA; and
   (f)   Revegetation and/or reforestation: the revegetation and/or
reforestation of the riparian setback so long as species of shrubs and vines
recommended by CSWCD for stabilizing flood prone areas along streams within the
county are utilized.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.08  PERMITTED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES AND RELATED SOIL DISTURBING
ACTIVITIES WITHIN A RIPARIAN SETBACK WITH A ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   Only the following buildings, structures, uses, and related soil disturbing
activities may be permitted within a riparian setback, subject to the approval
of an application for a use and occupancy certificate by the Building
Commissioner and in accordance with the following regulations and such other
applicable regulations contained in this Planning and Zoning Code.
   (a)   Crossings. Crossings of designated watercourses through riparian
setbacks with roads, driveways, easements, bridges, culverts, utility sendee
lines, or other means may be permitted, subject to the other regulations
contained in this chapter and the regulations enforced by the CSWCD and the
City Engineer. If work will occur below the ordinary high water mark of the
designated watercourse, proof of compliance with the applicable conditions of a
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers § 404 permit (either a nationwide permit,
including the state certification special conditions and limitations, or an
individual permit, including Ohio 401 water quality certification), shall also
be provided to the Building Commissioner. Proof of compliance shall be the
following:
      (1)   A site plan showing that any proposed crossing conforms to the
general and special conditions of the applicable nationwide permit;
      (2)   A copy of the authorization letter from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers approving the activities under the applicable nationwide permit; or
      (3)   A copy of the authorization letter from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers approving activities under an individual permit.
   (b)   Streambank stabilization projects. Streambank stabilization projects
along designated watercourses, subject to other regulations contained in this
chapter and the regulations enforced by the CSWCD. If streambank stabilization
work is proposed below the ordinary high water mark of a designated
watercourse, proof of compliance with the applicable conditions of U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers § 404 permit (either a nationwide permit 13, including the
state certification special conditions and limitations, or an individual
permit, including Ohio 401 water quality certification), shall be provided to
the Building Commissioner. Proof of compliance shall be the following:
      (1)   A site plan showing that any proposed crossing conforms to the
general and special conditions of the nationwide permit 13;
      (2)   A copy of the authorization letter from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers approving activities under nationwide permit 13; or
      (3)   A copy of the authorization letter from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers approving activities under an individual permit.
   (c)   Storm water retention and detention facilities. Storm water retention
and detention facilities, provided:
      (1)   Storm water quality treatment consistent with current Ohio EPA and
CSWCD regulations is incorporated into the storm water retention and detention
facilities;
      (2)   Where the riparian setbacks are less than or equal to 50 feet, the
storm water detention and retention facilities may be located within the
riparian setback; and
      (3)   Where the riparian setbacks are greater than 50 feet, storm water
retention and detention facilities are located at least 50 feet from the
ordinary high water mark of the designated watercourse.
   (d)   Signs. Signs in accordance with this Planning and Zoning Code.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.09 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES AND RELATED SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITIES
PROHIBITED WITHIN A RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   Any building, structure, use or related soil disturbing activity not
permitted under this chapter shall be prohibited within a riparian setback. The
following buildings, structures, uses and related soil disturbing activities
are specifically prohibited:
   (a)   Construction. There shall be no buildings, structures, uses or related
soil disturbing activities of any kind except as permitted under these
regulations.
   (b)   Parking spaces or lots and loading/ unloading spaces for vehicles.
There shall be no parking spaces, parking lots, loading/unloading spaces or
related soil disturbing activities.
   (C)   Road and driveways. There shall be no roads, driveways or related soil
disturbing activities except as permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.10  INSPECTION OF RIPARIAN SETBACKS.
   The City Engineer shall inspect the delineation of riparian setbacks.
   (a)   The owner shall notify the City Engineer and Building Commissioner at
least seven days prior to the initiation of any construction, land development
or soil disturbing activities on a lot.
   (b)   The Building Commissioner and/or City Engineer, with prior notice and
the authorization of the owner, may enter the affected lot from time to time to
conduct on-site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 1336.11  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES OR USES IN THE RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (a)   Structures and uses within the riparian setback existing at the time
of passage of this chapter that are not permitted to be located within the
riparian setback under this chapter may be continued but shall not be expanded
except as set forth in this section.
   (b)   If a structure is damaged or destroyed, the structure may be repaired
or restored within six months from the date of the damage or destruction in
order to maintain a legal nonconforming status.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 3-30-2017)
CHAPTER 1337:  SALE OF REAL ESTATE: PRE-SALE CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS
Section
1337.01   Sale of real estate; certificate of use, occupancy and inspection
required
1337.02   Issuance
1337.03   Fees
1337.04   Order for corrections
1337.05   Statement acknowledging receipt of certificate of use, occupancy and
inspection
1337.06   Escrow agent: disbursal of funds without certificate of close-out
prohibited
1337.07   Other legal action
1337.08   Validity
 
1337.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sale of multiple dwelling, see §
1349.07
   Sale of two-family dwelling, see §
1347.04
§ 1337.01  SALE OF REAL ESTATE; CERTIFICATE OF USE, OCCUPANCY AND INSPECTION
REQUIRED.
   (a)   In addition to all other requirements of this code, no owner or agent
thereof of any real estate shall sell or otherwise convey real estate situated
within the city without first obtaining a certificate of use, occupancy and
inspection and then exhibiting such certificate or copy thereof to the
prospective purchaser of such real estate or premises being sold. As evidence
of compliance with the requirements of this section, the owner or agent thereof
should obtain the signature of such prospective buyer on the certificate of
use, occupancy and inspection for such real estate or premises, or on a copy
thereof, in the space indicated on the certificate, together with the date of
such signing. Transfers or conveyances to or from the city for purposes of
demolition or redevelopment shall be exempt from the requirements of §§
1337.01 to
1337.06 inclusive.
   (b)   In the event the real estate described in division (a) above is sold
at a sheriff’s sale, auction, or transferred in any other manner, and no
certificate of use, occupancy and inspection has been issued within one year
prior to such sale or transfer, the purchaser or grantee shall apply in writing
to the Department of Building and Housing within 30 days after the date of sale
or grant for an inspection of the property. The method of application shall be
as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 7868, passed 3-5-1987; Ord. 07-10, passed 5-5-2010)
§ 1337.02  ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Upon application by the owner or agent thereof for a certificate of
use, occupancy and inspection required by the provisions of this code, to be
made upon forms supplied by the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector
shall cause a general inspection of the applicant’s real estate or premises
listed in the application to be made and a certificate of use, occupancy and
inspection shall be issued by the Building Inspector, which shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The street address or other identifying characteristics of the
subject real estate or premises;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner as defined in §
1341.14;
      (3)   The authorized use and occupancy of the subject real estate or
premises; and
      (4)   The listing of all known violations of codified ordinances existing
at the time of such inspection of the subject real estate or premises,
including any building or structure thereon.
   (b)   Such certificate of use, occupancy and inspection shall be valid for a
period of six months from the date of the issuance of such certificate for the
purpose of selling or otherwise conveying an interest in the property.
(Ord. 7868, passed 3-5-1987; Ord. 08-10, passed 5-5-2010)
§ 1337.03  FEES.
   (a)   The fee for a certificate of use, occupancy and inspection which shall
accompany the application for a certificate of use, occupancy and inspection
shall be as follows:
      (1)   For single-family dwelling containing one unit, the fee shall be
$150, and for each additional unit: $50. (Example: two-family dwelling $200).
      (2)   For all multiple dwelling structures containing four to 15 dwelling
units, there shall be a base fee of $150 per building and $50 multiplied by the
number of dwelling units in the building.
      (3)   For all multiple dwelling structures containing 16 or more dwelling
units, the fee shall be $300 per building and $50 for each dwelling unit
thereafter, but not to exceed the sum of $3,000 for any one dwelling structure/
building.
      (4)   For all structures containing business units, the fee shall be
$200,000 multiplied by the number of business units in the structure.
      (5)   For all structures containing business units over 3,000 square
feet, the fee shall be $500 for each such business unit over 3,000 square feet.
The fee for those units therein less than 3,000 square feet shall be $200 per
such unit.
      (6)   For all structures containing both dwelling units and business
units, the fee shall be $50 multiplied by the number of dwelling units, plus
$200 multiplied by the number of business units.
   (b)   The fees enumerated above shall be reimposed after the expiration of
the original certificate of use, occupancy and inspection.
   (c)   There shall be an additional fee of $25 for each reinspection after
the first two inspections within the six-month period that the certificate is
valid.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 09-10, passed 5-5-2010)
§ 1337.04  ORDER FOR CORRECTIONS.
   Except in the cases requiring sooner correction, in the opinion of the
Building Inspector, the certificate of use, occupancy and inspection shall
contain the order of the Building Inspector to correct any code violations
noted on the certificate within six months of the issuance of such certificate.
For good cause shown the Building Inspector may extend the time for correction
required by this section. Once the violations have been corrected or the
requirements of a conditional sale have been met, the owner or agent thereof
may apply for and receive a close-out certificate or a conditional close-out
certificate.
(Ord. 7868, passed 3-5-1987)
§ 1337.05  STATEMENT ACKNOWLEDGING RECEIPT OF CERTIFICATE OF USE, OCCUPANCY AND
INSPECTION.
   No person, agent, firm or corporation or agent thereof shall sell, by land
contract or otherwise, any interest in any real estate, building or structure
situated within the city without furnishing the buyer, prior to such sale, a
valid certificate of use, occupancy and inspection and without furnishing the
city and depositing in escrow prior to delivery of possession or transfer a
statement from the buyer acknowledging the receipt of this document.
(Ord. 7868, passed 3-5-1987)  Penalty, see §
1337.99
§ 1337.06  ESCROW AGENT: DISBURSAL OF FUNDS WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF CLOSE-OUT
PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation acting in the capacity of an escrow agent in
any real estate transaction involving the sale of real estate situated in the
city, shall transfer title or disburse any funds unless and until a close-out
certificate or conditional close-out certificate has been deposited in escrow.
(Ord. 7868, passed 3-5-1987)  Penalty, see §
1337.99
§ 1337.07  OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the Director of Law from
instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of proper
jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful repair or maintenance; to restrain, correct
or abate a violation; to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure or
premises; or to require compliance with the provisions of this chapter or other
applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations, or the orders or
determinations of the Building Inspector, the Mayor, the Board of Building Code
Appeals or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 7671, passed 9-20-1983)
§ 1337.08  VALIDITY.
   (a)   Sections and divisions of this chapter and the several parts and
provisions thereof are hereby declared to be independent sections, divisions,
parts and provisions and the holding of any such section, division, part or
provision thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause
shall not affect nor render invalid any other such section, division, part or
provision thereof.
   (b)   The Building Code, the Housing Code, the Sanitary Code and all other
codes or ordinances of the city prescribing standards for the construction,
operation, occupancy or maintenance of buildings or property, including all
amendments thereto, are hereby specifically incorporated into this chapter as
if their provisions were written at length herein and the provisions or
standards of such codes or ordinances are applicable to this chapter.
(Ord. 7671, passed 9-20-1983)
§ 1337.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation
promulgated hereunder or fails to comply herewith or with any written notice or
written order issued hereunder, shall, in addition to other legal action which
may be instituted under §
1337.07, be fined not more than $1,000 and imprisoned for not more than six
months for each offense. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense and may be punishable as provided for herein.
(Ord. 7671, passed 9-20-1983)
CHAPTER 1339:  RODENT HARBORAGE
Section
1339.01   Conditions declared nuisances
1339.02   Violations a misdemeanor
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Ch. 527
   Waste collection and disposal, see
Ch. 939
§ 1339.01  CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following conditions are found and declared to be conducive to harboring
mice and rats and are hereby declared to be nuisances and prohibited:
   (a)   Broken, cracked or defective ceilings, walls, floors or foundations in
which are holes or cracks of a size sufficient to permit a rat or mouse to pass
through;
   (b)   Materials, including rubbish, piled, stored or kept on the premises,
into, among or under which rats or mice have burrowed or may burrow;
   (c)   Buildings, foundations of buildings, appurtenances to buildings,
floor, walks or driveways under which mice or rats have burrowed;
   (d)   Portable buildings, boxes, crates and materials, including rubbish,
piled, stored or kept so that they rest directly on the ground surface or less
than 18 inches above such surface;
   (e)   Garbage containers without watertight tops, sides and bottoms or
without tight-fitting tops or around or under which mice or rats have burrowed
or may burrow; and
   (f)   Feeding of wild animals, birds or other wild life, other than in
suitable containers for food, elevated at least 36 inches above the ground
level.
§ 1339.02  VIOLATIONS A MISDEMEANOR.
   The owner, lessee, occupant or manager of any premises on which any
condition prohibited in §
1339.01 exists shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the
penalty provided by §
1301.99.
CHAPTER 1340:  WIRELESS COMMUNICATION ANTENNAS AND TOWERS
Section
1340.01   Definitions
1340.02   Purpose
1340.03   Location
1340.04   Procedure
1340.05   Type of construction
1340.06   Standards
1340.07   Review by the Board of Zoning Appeals
1340.08   Certification of registered engineer
1340.09   Time limitation for beginning of construction
1340.10   Reimbursement of expenses
1340.11   Permit fees
1340.12   Exemption for city-owned property
1340.13   Civil action
1340.14   Remedies cumulative
 
1340.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Height limitations, see
Ch. 1133
§ 1340.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LATTICE. A framework or structure of crossed metal strips typically resting
on three members constructed vertically to which antennas are affixed.
   MONOPOLE. A single, slender and typically cylindrical, vertical structure to
which antennas or antenna support structures are affixed.
   SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.  More than a mere scintilla of evidence. It means such
relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a
conclusion.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. Technology permitting the passage of information from the
sender to one or more receivers in a usable form by means of any
electromagnetic system.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION ANTENNA.  An antenna system designed to transmit or
receive communications as authorized by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC), excluding amateur radio operator’s antennas.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER.  A tower, including, but not limited to, self-
supporting lattice or monopole which elevates the wireless communication
antenna and may include accessory transmission and receiving equipment.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT BUILDING.  The structure in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications
facility is housed.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.  A facility consisting of the
equipment and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio
signals from a mobile radio communications source and transmitting those
signals to a central switching computer which connects the mobile unit with
land-based telephone lines.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this legislation is to provide a process for permitting the
construction and subsequent maintenance of telecommunication systems including
towers and antennas. This process is directed at maintaining a balance between
the city’s identified right to preserve its land and policies for the health,
safety, welfare and aesthetics and the federal government’s interest in
providing for and spurring competition in the telecommunication arena. All
legislation is directed at creating an environment where residents will have
the greatest opportunity to benefit from the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201’s intent to enhance competition while impacting the
city’s land use and property values in the least intrusive manner possible.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.03  LOCATION.
   New wireless communication towers may be located only in nonresidential
zoning districts and shall be subject to the particular zoning district in
which the antenna and/or tower is proposed to be located, but only to the
extent such regulations do not conflict with the regulations set forth in this
chapter. No new wireless communication towers may be located within the
boundaries of Forest Hill Park. No wireless communication tower may be located
within a radius of one-half mile from any other existing wireless communication
tower. Wireless communication antennas may be located in residential zoning
districts so long as they are not associated with wireless communication towers
but are part of an existing structure and shall be subject to the regulations
set forth in this chapter and the regulations of the particular zoning district
in which the antenna is proposed to be located, but only to the extent such
regulations do not conflict with the zoning districts through the grant of a
variance by the Board of Zoning Appeals, subject to final approval by City
Council.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.04  PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Applicants are encouraged in appear before the Board of Zoning Appeals
for a preview of proposed wireless communication antenna and tower sites, which
preview may be conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals upon the applicant’s
submittal of a site plan with general location, type of structure and height
being reviewed and surrounding uses.
   (b)   A wireless communication antenna and/or tower shall not be constructed
or erected except upon a permit issued by the Building Department after
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals after a public hearing and final
approval by City Council.
   (c)   With the permit application to the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
applicant shall file a complete set of plans and specifications, a site plan
showing the location of the tower and associated buildings and uses and
structures on the same and adjacent parcels and any other information deemed
necessary by the Board of Zoning Appeals for a review of the application. The
applicant is also encouraged to provide photographs showing structures and uses
on adjacent parcels. The application shall also include the applicant’s
proposed total number of towers, if more than one, and the additional tower
locations in the city. The applicant shall place on deposit the amount
necessary for the city to obtain a certification from a registered engineer(s).
The engineer shall review and agree that the proposal is in compliance with all
federal, state and local regulations. As part of the permit application, the
applicant shall provide the city with a list of competitors of the application
in an effort to encourage collocation.
   (d)   (1)   Approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals of the granting of a
permit shall become effective only following review and public hearing by the
City Council. The requirement of a public hearing before City Council may be
waived by Council if either:
         A.   The applicant is for co-location; or
         B.   The applicant is for location on city owned property.
      (2)   The applicant can appeal to City Council within 60 days from the
day of denial.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.05  TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Only the following types of wireless communication antenna and/or tower
installations may be permitted under this chapter.
   (a)   Wireless communication antennas attached to a permitted institutional,
recreational, public utility, office, industrial or commercial building or
structure, provided an antenna does not exceed ten feet above the highest point
of the structure and the transmission and receiving equipment, where feasible,
is stored inside the existing building or structure or on the roof in an
enclosure. If the wireless communication antenna is located on the roof of a
structure, it shall be located as far as possible away from the edge of the
building. All wireless communication antennas shall be painted or otherwise
treated so as to match the exterior of the building. The foregoing does not
preclude the use of small base stations and repeaters on the sides of
buildings, utility poles or in ground mounted pedestals.
   (b)   Wireless combination monopole or lattice towers constructed up to, but
not including, 200 feet in height above the finished grade, unless a lesser
height is technically feasible to service the geographical service area of the
applicant and the transmission and receiving equipment is stored inside a
building constructed for that purpose. All applicants shall be required to
construct or locate on a base tower structure and structure foundation that is
designed to be buildable up to, but not including, 200 feet above the finished
grade. Such structure shall be designed to have sufficient structural capacity
to allow for at least three providers to be located on the structure when
constructed to the maximum allowable height. The wireless communication
facility shall also be designed to show that the applicant has enough space on
its site plan for an equipment building large enough to accommodate up to at
least three users. Underground equipment shelters are encouraged especially in
non-industrial districts and may be requested by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
The maximum size of aboveground equipment buildings is 300 square feet in
total.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)  Penalty, see §
1340.99
§ 1340.06  STANDARDS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider, and the applicant shall
demonstrate compliance with, the following standards in determining whether to
approve an application for a wireless communication antenna and/or tower.
   (a)   There is no technically suitable space reasonably available on an
existing tower or structure within the geographic area to be served. With the
permit application, the applicant shall list the location of every tower,
building or structure that could support the proposed antenna so as to allow it
to serve its intended function. The applicant must demonstrate that a
technically suitable location is not reasonably available on an existing tower,
building or structure. If another communication tower is technically suitable,
the applicant must show that it has requested to collocate on the existing
tower and the collocation request was rejected by the owner of the tower. In
all circumstances, owners of existing towers shall promptly respond to requests
for collocation, but in no event shall they respond in more than 30 days from
the date of receipt of written request for collocation. If another
communication tower is technically suitable, the applicant must further show
that it has offered to allow the owner of that other tower to collocate an
antenna on another tower within the city owned by the applicant, if any, on
reasonably reciprocal terms and the offer was not accepted. In all cases, the
city shall use its best efforts to encourage collocation.
   (b)   As a condition of issuing a permit to construct and operate a tower in
the city, the owner/operator of the tower is required to allow collocation
until said tower has reached full antenna capacity, but in no event fewer than
two additional antennas for two additional providers. Agreements to this
provision must be included in the lease by the landowner, if different from the
owner/operator of the tower. Written documentation must be presented to the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Council evidencing that the landowner of the
property on which the tower is to be located has agreed to the terms.
   (c)   Poles, towers, equipment structures and antenna placement shall meet
the minimum yard setback requirements as set forth in the Zoning Code for the
zoning district in which the antenna and/or tower is proposed to be located and
all lot area requirements for that zoning district.
   (d)   Screen fencing shall be provided for aesthetic and public safety
reasons. A fence at least six feet in height will be erected completely around
the communication tower and any related support facilities. Barbed wire at the
top of the fence is permitted. No trespassing signs shall be posted around the
wireless telecommunication facility with a telephone number of a person to
contact in the event of an emergency.
   (e)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to withstand sustained winds of
at least 100 mph with one inch of icing.
   (f)   A landscaped buffer area of not less than ten feet in depth shall be
placed between the wireless communication facilities and the public right-of-
way, residential zoning districts, and any adjacent residential uses. The ten-
foot landscape buffer shall consist of a tight screen fence of hardy evergreen
shrubbery not less than six feet in height. The landscaping shall be
continuously maintained and promptly restored, if necessary. Additional
landscape buffers may be required by the City Council.
   (g)   The owner or operator shall agree to remove a nonfunctioning facility
within two months of ceasing its use. The owner of the antenna and/or tower
shall annually file a declaration with the Building Department as to the
continuing operation of every facility installed subject to this chapter. The
owner/operator of the antenna and/or tower shall sign a written consent
consenting to annual inspection of the wireless communication facility by the
City Engineering Department.
   (h)   The owner or operator shall be required as a condition of issuance of
a permit to post a cash or surety bond acceptable to the Law Director of not
less than $100 per vertical foot from natural grade of the wireless
communication tower which bond shall insure that an abandoned, obsolete or
destroyed wireless communication antenna or tower shall be removed within two
months of cessation of use and abandonment. Any collocator shall be required to
additionally execute such bond, as principal, to insure that the bond will be
in place during the period of time that the collocator occupies the tower.
   (i)   Outdoor storage of any supplies, vehicles or equipment related to the
use of the facility is prohibited.
   (j)   Except as required by law, an antenna or a tower shall not be
illuminated and lighting fixtures or signs shall not be attached to the antenna
or tower. If lighting is required by FAA regulations, white stroke lights shall
not be permitted by FAA. Lighting for security purposes shall be permitted at
the wireless telecommunication facility with a prior approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (k)   The applicant must provide written certification from a registered
engineer that the antenna and/or tower are to be constructed in compliance with
all applicable federal, state and local regulations pertaining to the
construction. Additionally, prior to receiving final inspection by the city’s
Building Department, documented certification shall be submitted to the FCC,
with a copy to the city’s Building Department and Engineering Department,
certifying that the wireless communication facility complies with all current
FCC regulations for non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (NIER).
   (l)   A proposed new tower in an industrial or commercial district shall not
be located within 1,000 feet from any residential zoning district.
   (m)   No advertising shall be permitted on the wireless telecommunication
facility.
   (n)   There shall be separation of at least one mile between new wireless
communication towers.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)  Penalty, see §
1340.99
§ 1340.07  REVIEW BY THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (a)   Application. Prior to action by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
permit application must be reviewed and approved. In addition to any standard
submission requirements, the applicant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The location of any electrical or signal transmitting wires or
cables to be used;
      (2)   The specific antenna support structure device which is to be used;
      (3)   The proposed method of screening the antenna support structure to
make it as inconspicuous as possible and help it blend into the surrounding
area, where feasible;
      (4)   Elevation drawings illustrating the placement, height, color and
material of the antenna and its support structure; and
      (5)   Plot plan of the lot, premises, parcel of land and adjacent parcels
showing among other things, the exact location and dimensions of all buildings
on the parcel and adjacent parcels and property lines.
   (b)   Board of Zoning Appeals review and findings. Prior to approval of an
installation, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall find as follows:
      (1)   There is no other location on the site for the proposed antenna
support structure which would result in a less conspicuous or more
aesthetically pleasing installation while still providing reasonable signal
access;
      (2)   The antenna and its support structure is the smallest possible for
the frequency used and optimally located to allow reasonable signal access;
      (3)   Apart from the tower or monopole structure, the facility
appurtenances shall be aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the
architecture of the surrounding environment;
      (4)   The color of the structure blends with the surrounding
environmental characteristics; and
      (5)   A landscape plan reasonably designed to enhance the aesthetic
quality of the tower location and to adequately screen the site from the view
of drivers and pedestrians on adjacent right-of-way and adjacent properties.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.08  CERTIFICATION OF REGISTERED ENGINEER.
   Prior to action by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the city shall require a
review by an independent registered engineer engaged by the city and paid for
by the applicant. Among other things, the engineer shall review and approve the
written certification of the applicant’s engineer filed; shall review and
approve the applicant’s propagation studies showing the necessity for and
location of the tower; and shall review and approve the structural integrity,
electrical integrity and electrical safeness of the wireless telecommunication
facility in its projected uses so as to assure the protection of the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.09  TIME LIMITATION FOR BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION.
   After issuance of a permit to construct a wireless communication facility,
the permittee shall begin construction within 180 days and shall complete
construction within 360 days or the permit and approval shall expire. As a
condition of the permit, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall require the
applicant and site owner to certify that if construction is not commenced
within 180 days or completed within 360 days, the site shall be available for
another wireless telecommunications facility.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.10  REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   The applicant shall be responsible for all expenses incurred by the city for
any technical engineering services deemed necessary by the Building Department,
Board of Zoning Appeals or City Council to perform the reviews required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.11  PERMIT FEES.
   The Building Department shall authorize the issuance of permits required by
this chapter and shall collect the fees therefor in accordance with the
following schedule:
   (a)   New wireless communication tower and facility: $1,500;
   (b)   New wireless communication antenna: $300;
   (c)   Collocation wireless communication antenna on existing tower or
building: $300; and
   (d)   Annual inspection fee: $500.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.12  EXEMPTION FOR CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   Wireless communication antennas and/or towers located on city-owned
property, shall not be exempt from the regulations set forth in this chapter
and any other provisions of the Zoning Code. Notwithstanding any of the
foregoing provisions of the section, if a wireless communication tower is to be
located on city-owned property, the tower in all cases shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.13  CIVIL ACTION.
   Whenever any person fails, neglects or refuses to comply with any order of
the Building Department, under the provisions of this chapter, or when any
building or other structure is used or occupied so as to be in violation of or
not in conformity with any provision of this chapter, the Building Department
may, in its discretion, institute an appropriate action in law or in equity to
restrain the execution and violation of this chapter to prevent or terminate
any violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.14  REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   The exercise of the rights and remedies granted in this chapter shall in no
way preclude or limit the city from exercising any other right or remedy now or
hereafter granted to it under the laws of the state or the ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1340.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed, upon
conviction of the first offense, guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days or
both. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or
both. Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portions thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is committed, permitted or continued.
(Ord. 27-98, passed 3-17-1998)
TITLE 5:  HOUSING CODE
      Chapter
         
1341   Definitions
         
1343   Purpose, Scope, Compliance and Validity
         
1345   Enforcement and Penalty
         
1347   Certificate of Authorized Occupancy
         
1349   Certificate of Occupancy
         
1350   Landlords and Tenants
         
1351   Basic Standards for Residential Occupancy
         
1355   Rooming Houses, Hotels and Foster Homes
CHAPTER 1341:  DEFINITIONS
Section
1341.01   Approved
1341.02   Building Inspector
1341.03   Communal kitchen
1341.04   Double house
1341.05   Dwelling
1341.06   Dwelling structure
1341.07   Dwelling unit
1341.08   Family
1341.09   Habitable room
1341.10   Hotel
1341.11   Multiple dwelling
1341.12   Occupant
1341.13   Operator
1341.14   Owner
1341.15   Premises
1341.16   Secondary or appurtenant structure
1341.17   Supply or supplied
1341.18   Two-family dwelling
§ 1341.01  APPROVED.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector pursuant to this Housing Code,
or approved by any other authority designated by the ordinances of the city to
give approval to the matter in question.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.02  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  As used in this Housing Code means the Building
Inspector or Housing Inspector and shall be construed as though followed by the
words “or his or her authorized agent or representative”.
§ 1341.03  COMMUNAL KITCHEN.
   COMMUNAL KITCHEN.  A kitchen within a dwelling building used by the
occupants of more than one dwelling unit or shared or used by any person other
than members of one family and authorized roomers residing with the family
within the dwelling unit.
§ 1341.04  DOUBLE HOUSE.
   DOUBLE HOUSE.  A detached dwelling arranged, intended or designed to be
occupied by only two families living side by side with a party wall between.
(Ord. 5587, passed 11-17-1964)
§ 1341.05  DWELLING.
   DWELLING. A building intended or designed to be occupied by not more than
two families living separately and independently of each other.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.06  DWELLING STRUCTURE.
   DWELLING STRUCTURE.  A building or structure used or designed or intended to
be used, all or in part, for residential purposes.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.07  DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A group of rooms arranged, maintained or designed to be
occupied by a single family and consisting of a complete bathroom with toilet,
lavatory and tub or shower facilities; one and one only, complete kitchen or
kitchenette with approved cooking, refrigeration and sink facilities; approved
living and sleeping facilities. All of such facilities shall be in contiguous
rooms and used exclusively by such family and by any authorized persons
occupying such dwelling unit with the family. The words DWELLING UNIT,
APARTMENT  and SUITE  shall be considered synonymous.
(Ord. 5802, passed 2-21-1967)
§ 1341.08  FAMILY.
   FAMILY. One individual or a number of individuals related by blood, adoption
or marriage to the head of the household or to the spouse of the head of the
household living, sleeping, cooking and eating together as a single
housekeeping unit in a single dwelling unit, except that a FAMILY may include
not more than two additional persons not related within the scope of the
foregoing definition of FAMILY , whether or not otherwise related to the head
of the household or to the spouse of the head of the household, provided that:
   (a)   Such additional persons shall be at least 18 years of age; or
   (b)   If such additional persons are less than 18 years of age, such person
must be:
      (1)   Foster children placed with the head of the household, or with the
spouse of the head of the household. FOSTER CHILD  means a person under 18
years of age who is placed in a dwelling unit by an institution or agency,
licensed or approved by an appropriate state-regulating agency to place foster
children;
      (2)   Children for whom a family member has been appointed legal guardian
by a court of competent jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Not more than one additional person under 18 years of age who is
the child or ward of an additional person over 18 years of age. In order for a
person under 18 years of age to be considered the ward of another, such other
person must have been appointed legal guardian by a court of competent
jurisdiction. The HEAD OF THE HOUSEHOLD  shall be that person who customarily
furnishes the greatest percentage of financial support to the maintenance of
the family. Notwithstanding the provisions of this definition, no family unit
shall exceed in total number those persons permitted under the applicable
provisions of the Housing Code describing required habitable floor and bedroom
areas for each occupant.
(Ord. 24-91, passed 3-5-1991)
§ 1341.09  HABITABLE ROOM.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms,
laundries, pantries, dressing rooms, storage spaces, foyers, hallways, utility
rooms, heater rooms, boiler rooms, basement recreation rooms and areas used for
kitchen purposes. Wherever living, sleeping or eating space is included in a
room or area also used for kitchen purposes, the Building Inspector shall
determine the portion of the floor area used for kitchen purposes and such
portion so determined, shall not constitute habitable floor area in determining
the habitable floor area of a dwelling unit.
(Ord. 5485, passed 6-18-1963)
§ 1341.10  HOTEL.
   HOTEL. A building originally designed for hotel purposes and meeting all
requirements of state and city laws, rules and regulations in which all or a
part thereof is occupied, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the
public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests and in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of such guests. For the purpose of this Housing Code, the word HOTEL shall
include motels and motor courts meeting these requirements.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.11  MULTIPLE DWELLING.
   As used in Title V, Chapters 1341 through 1353, The Housing Code, the term
MULTIPLE DWELLING  means a building containing three or more dwelling units, or
two or more dwelling units above the first or ground floor, or one or more
dwelling units if the building contains a use other than a dwelling use; and
MULTIPLE DWELLING  also means three or more dwelling units owned by the same
owner or owners having common or adjacent walls or floors and ceilings,
contiguous to each other, such as row houses, town houses, or condominiums. For
the purpose of applying this definition, any building which is being operated
as a rooming house pursuant to a valid city license shall not be classed as a
multiple dwelling. The words MULTIPLE DWELLING, TENEMENT HOUSE  and APARTMENT
HOUSE  are synonymous.
(Ord. 7062, passed 9-20-1977)
§ 1341.12  OCCUPANT.
   OCCUPANT. A person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or eating
in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or a room.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.13  OPERATOR.
   OPERATOR. A person who has charge, care or control of a dwelling structure.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.14  OWNER.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of premises, including the holder of title
thereto subject to contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee or
receiver in possession, a lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof, or an
agent or any other person, firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in control
of the premises. The person who signs an application for a certificate of
occupancy for any premises shall be deemed prima facie to be the owner of such
premises as defined herein.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1341.15  PREMISES.
   As used in this Housing Code, PREMISES means a lot, parcel or plot of land
including the buildings or structures thereon.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.16  SECONDARY OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   As used in this Housing Code, SECONDARY OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURE means a
structure, the use of which is incidental or accessory to that of the main
building, and which is attached thereto or located on the same premises.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1341.17  SUPPLY OR SUPPLIED.
   As used in this Housing Code, SUPPLY  or SUPPLIED  means paid for, furnished
or provided by or under the control of the owner or operator.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1341.18  TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached dwelling arranged, intended or designed to
be occupied by but two families, one of which has its principal living rooms on
the first floor and the other of which has its principal living rooms on the
second floor.
(Ord. 5587, passed 11-17-1964)
CHAPTER 1343:  PURPOSE, SCOPE, COMPLIANCE AND VALIDITY
Section
1343.01   Title
1343.02   Purpose
1343.03   General scope
1343.04   Compliance
1343.05   Validity
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see
Ch. 1341
   Enforcement and penalty, see
Ch. 1345
§ 1343.01  TITLE.
   Ordinance 5320, passed March 21, 1961, as amended, which is codified as this
Title V of Part 13 - Building Code, and hereinafter referred to as “this
Housing Code”, shall be known as the “Housing Code of the City of East
Cleveland”.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1343.02  PURPOSE.
   Within the scope of this Housing Code as hereinafter defined, the purpose of
this Housing Code is: to establish minimum standards necessary to make all
dwelling structures safe, sanitary, free from fire and health hazards, and fit
for human habitation and beneficial to the public welfare; to establish minimum
standards governing the maintenance of dwelling structures in such condition as
will not constitute a blighting or deteriorating influence on the neighborhood
and the community; to protect property values and to maintain the character and
appearance of the community and neighborhoods within the community; to fix
responsibilities for owners and occupants of dwelling structures with respect
to sanitation, repair and maintenance; to establish additional standards for
multiple dwellings; to authorize the inspection of dwelling structures; to
establish enforcement procedures; to authorize the vacation or condemnation of
dwelling structures unsafe or unfit for human habitation, and to fix penalties
for violations.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1343.03  GENERAL SCOPE.
   (a)   The provisions of this Housing Code shall be supplementary to all
other provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to the construction,
use and maintenance of residential buildings and shall apply to all buildings
or portions thereof, excepting hotels as defined in §
1341.10 which are used or designed or intended to be used for residential
occupancy.
   (b)   Existing buildings may continue to be occupied for residential
purposes if:
      (1)   The building complies with the provisions of this Housing Code
except as to any variance heretofore specifically granted by Council or by any
board properly authorized by Council; and
      (2)   The use and occupancy of the building is not in violation of any of
the provisions of the ordinances of the city and applicable statutes of the
state, including any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to such ordinances
or statutes.
   (c)   In the event of conflict between any provisions of this Housing Code,
including any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this Housing Code, and
any provisions of the ordinances of the city, including any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to such ordinances, the provisions of this Housing
Code shall prevail.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1343.04  COMPLIANCE.
   The owner, as defined in §
1341.14, shall be responsible for compliance with all of the provisions of this
Housing Code except where the responsibility therefor is specifically placed
elsewhere.
(Ord. 5432, passed 11-20-1962)
§ 1343.05  VALIDITY.
   Sections and divisions of this Housing Code and the several parts and
provisions thereof are hereby declared to be independent sections, divisions,
parts and provisions, and the holding of any such section, division, part or
provision thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause
shall not affect nor render invalid any other such section, division, part or
provision thereof.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
CHAPTER 1345:  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
Section
1345.01   Inspection
1345.02   Right of entry; search warrant
1345.03   Notice of violation
1345.04   Noncompliance with notice
1345.05   Cases of emergency
1345.06   Placards
1345.07   Expenses and costs
1345.08   Board of Building Code Appeals
1345.09   Rules and regulations; file copies; existing codes
1345.10   Other legal action
 
1345.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Responsibility for compliance, see §
1343.04
   Variances, see §
1311.02
§ 1345.01  INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector and other city department heads and their
representatives are hereby authorized to make or cause to be made inspections
of all structures or premises used for dwelling purposes and all secondary or
appurtenant structures to determine whether such structures or premises conform
to the provisions of this Housing Code.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1345.02  RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH WARRANT.
   (a)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector and
other city department heads and their representatives may enter at reasonable
times, or at such other times as may be necessary in an emergency, any
dwelling, building, structure or premises in the city to perform any duty
imposed on him or her by this Housing Code.
   (b)   Except in emergency situations, if the owner, agent or administrator
acting for the owner of a structure or premises used for dwelling purposes
refuses entrance to the Building Inspector or other persons authorized to make
inspections by §
1345.01 for purposes of inspections, no such entrance or inspections shall be
made unless a search warrant is properly obtained from a judge of a court of
competent jurisdiction. No penalty under the penalty provisions of this Code
shall apply against such owner, agent or administrator who refuses entrance
until such search warrant is obtained.
(Ord. 7132, passed 3-21-1978)
§ 1345.03  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Whenever the Building Inspector and other city department heads and
their representatives find any dwelling structure or premises, or any part
thereof, to be in violation of the provisions of this Housing Code, the
Building Inspector shall give or cause to be given or mailed to the owner or
operator of such structure or premises a written notice stating the violations
therein. Such notice shall order the owner or operator, within a stated
reasonable time, to repair, improve or demolish the structure or premises
concerned. Such delivery or mailing shall be deemed legal service of notice.
   (b)   If the person to whom a notice of violation is addressed cannot be
found within the county after reasonable and diligent search, then notice may
be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such person, and a copy
of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the structure or
premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed legal
service of notice.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the requirement of notice provided herein, when, in
the opinion of the Building Inspector, the condition of a structure or
premises, or part thereof, constitutes an immediate hazard to human life or
health, or when a prior violation notice has been sent to the owner or operator
for the same or a similar violation, then no such notice of violation need be
given to the owner or operator of such building.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1345.04  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE.
   (a)   Whenever the owner, agent, occupant or operator of a structure or
premises fails, neglects or refuses to comply with any notice of the Building
Inspector, the Building Inspector may issue a notice to such owner, agent,
occupant or operator ordering the structure or premises, or part thereof, to be
vacated, or he or she may advise the Director of Law of the circumstances and
request the Director of Law to institute an appropriate action at law to compel
compliance, or both. Such notice shall be delivered, mailed or posted in the
same manner as provided in §
1345.03.
   (b)   Whenever the owner, agent, operator or occupant of a structure or
premises fails, neglects or refuses to comply with a notice to vacate issued by
the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector may request the Mayor to enforce
the orders of such notice of vacation and cause the structure or premises, or
part thereof, to be vacated in accordance with the terms of such notice.
   (c)   Whenever the owner, agent or operator of a structure fails, neglects
or refuses to comply with a notice to demolish such structure, or a part
thereof, or a secondary or appurtenant structure, issued in accordance with the
provisions of this Housing Code, and when such structure is determined by the
Building Inspector to constitute a public nuisance in that it is injurious to
the public health, safety or welfare, the Building Inspector may request the
Director of Law to prepare legislation stating such determination and
authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the demolition of such
structure, or part thereof, or to take such other action as may be necessary to
abate the nuisance. The Building Inspector shall further give notice informing
the owner, agent or operator of such determination and action. Such notice
shall be given in the same manner as provided in §
1345.03.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1345.05  CASES OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the condition of a
structure or premises, or part thereof, constitutes an immediate hazard to
human life or health, he or she shall declare a case of emergency and shall
order immediate vacation of the structure or premises, or part thereof.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1345.06  PLACARDS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector orders a structure or premises, or part
thereof, to be vacated, he or she shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
such structure or premises or part thereof a placard ordering such vacation. No
person shall deface or remove such placard until the repairs or demolition are
completed, without written permission of the Building Inspector. No person
shall enter or use any structure or premises so placarded except for the
purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing the structure or
premises.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1345.07  EXPENSES AND COSTS.
   Any expenses or costs incurred under the provisions for demolition, repair,
upkeep and the like contained in this Housing Code shall be paid by the owner
of the structure or premises. If such building maintenance is not performed by
the owner of the building, structure or premises within ten days after written
notice from the city, said owner will be ticketed and charged $20 upon issuance
of said ticket to be paid to the Finance Department. Upon issuance of such
ticket, the city shall proceed to perform the task for which the ticket was
issued and the cost for performing such work shall be recovered by the city,
including the cost of service of publication, the costs incurred due to use of
employees, materials or equipment of the city and/or by contract for labor,
materials and equipment, or both, for removing an insecure, unsafe or
structurally defective building or other structures, upkeep, grass and/or weed
cutting, and the like, may be recovered by an action at law or certified by the
Director of Finance to the County Auditor for placement on the tax duplicate
and collected as provided by law for taxes.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1345.08  BOARD OF BUILDING CODE APPEALS.
   The Board of Building Code Appeals, as established by Chapter 1311, shall be
the Board of Appeals for this Housing Code and its powers and duties and the
procedures for appeal shall be as provided in Chapter 1311.
(Ord. 5642, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1345.09  RULES AND REGULATIONS; FILE COPIES; EXISTING CODES.
   (a)   The Board of Building Code Appeals shall have the power to adopt from
time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this Housing Code and to provide for its proper
interpretation. Such rules and regulations shall not conflict with or waive any
provisions of this Housing Code or of any other codes or ordinances of the
city.
   (b)   Such rules and regulations, upon adoption by the Board, shall be on
file with the Building Inspector for public examination and a copy of such
rules and regulations shall be posted on the bulletin board in the main
entrance of the City Hall for at least five days. Such rules and regulations
shall have the same force and effect as all other provisions of this Housing
Code and shall continue in effect until amended or revoked by the Board or by
action of the Council.
   (c)   The Building Code, the Sanitary Code and all other codes or ordinances
of the city prescribing standards for the construction, operation or
maintenance of buildings or property, including all amendments thereto, are
hereby specifically incorporated into this Housing Code as if their provisions
were written at length herein and the provisions or standards of such codes or
ordinances are applicable to this Housing Code.
(Ord. 5802, passed 2-21-1967)
§ 1345.10  OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the Director of Law from
instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of proper
jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful repair or maintenance; to restrain, correct
or abate a violation; to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure or
premises; or to require compliance with the provisions of this Housing Code or
other applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or the orders or
determinations of the Building Inspector, the Mayor, the Board of Building Code
Appeals or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1345.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Housing Code or any rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder or fails to comply herewith or with any
written notice or written order issued hereunder, or whoever refuses to permit
entry by the Building Inspector or other city department heads or their
representatives at a reasonable hour, and whoever interferes with, obstructs or
hinders such Building Inspector, other city department heads or their
representatives while attempting to make such inspection shall be fined not
more than $1,000 and imprisoned for six months for each offense. Each day such
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
CHAPTER 1347:  CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORIZED OCCUPANCY
Section
1347.01   Certificate required
1347.02   Issuance
1347.03   Fee
1347.04   Sale of two-family dwelling or double house
Cross-reference:
   Certificate of occupancy for multiple dwellings, see
Ch. 1349
§ 1347.01  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No owner of any single-family dwelling, as defined in §
1341.05, or of any dwelling unit as defined in §
1341.07, shall occupy, rent, or lease such premises, or any part thereof,
unless such owner holds a certificate of authorized occupancy issued by the
Mayor for such premises; which certificate has not expired or otherwise become
null and void. Such certificate shall be obtained on or before July 1, 1967, or
before the owner enters into an agreement for the sale of such premises;
whichever shall occur sooner.
(Ord. 5784, passed 12-13-1966; Ord. 15-17, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 16-17, passed
6-6-2017)
§ 1347.02  ISSUANCE.
   (a)   An application for a certificate of authorized occupancy required
herein shall be made to the Building Inspector on forms supplied by him or her.
Immediately upon the receipt of such application, the Building Inspector shall
cause a general inspection of the premises to be made.
   (b)   Upon the completion of the inspection, the Mayor shall issue a
certificate of authorized occupancy for such premises which shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The street address or other identifying characteristics of the
premises;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner and of the agent, if any;
      (3)   The authorized use and occupancy of such premises; and
      (4)   Reference to the other requirements of the Housing Code and to the
available city housing records and inspection service.
   (c)   Such certificate shall be valid until a change or alteration of the
premises shall alter the authorized occupancy or until there is a change in the
ownership of such premises.
(Ord. 5784, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 1347.03  FEE.
   A fee of $100 shall be charged for the certificate of authorized occupancy
for single dwellings. The foregoing fees shall be in addition to the fee
charged for a certificate of occupancy. These are one-time fees.
(Ord. 48-91, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 15-17, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 16-17, passed
6-6-2017)
§ 1347.04  SALE OF TWO-FAMILY DWELLING OR DOUBLE HOUSE.
   Before an owner enters into an agreement for the sale of a two-family
dwelling or of a double house, he or she shall exhibit to the prospective
purchaser of such premises a copy of the certificate of authorized occupancy
for the premises being sold. As evidence of the owner’s compliance with the
requirements of this section, the owner shall obtain the signature of such
prospective buyer or his or her agent on the certificate of authorized
occupancy for such premises, or on a copy thereof, in the space indicated on
the certificate, together with the date of such signing.
(Ord. 5784, passed 12-13-1966)
CHAPTER 1349:  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
Section
1349.01   Certificate required
1349.02   Application; issuance; revocation
1349.03   New or remodeled buildings
1349.04   Posting of certificate
1349.05   Fees
1349.06   Change of certificate; reapplication; fees
1349.07   Sale of multiple dwelling
1349.08   Late fee
Cross-reference:
   Certificate of authorized occupancy for double or two-family houses, see
Ch. 1347
   Ohio Building Code fees, see §§
1301.12 et seq.
   Residential Code fees, see
Ch. 1310
§ 1349.01  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   On or after January 1, 1962, no owner, agent or person in charge of any
dwelling structure used or designed, or intended to be used as any type of
dwelling unit, shall rent or lease such structure or any part thereof for
residential occupancy unless the owner thereof holds a certificate of occupancy
issued by the Mayor for such structure, which certificate has not expired, been
revoked or otherwise become null and void, or unless such structure or part
thereof is licensed as a temporary rooming house.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961; Ord. 14-17, passed 6-6-2017)
§ 1349.02  APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; REVOCATION.
   (a)   (1)   An application for a certificate of occupancy required by the
provisions of this chapter shall be made annually to the Building Inspector not
later than January 15 of each year in writing, by supplying the information and
data to determine compliance with applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations for the existing use or occupancy or the intended use or occupancy.
Such application shall be made on forms supplied by the Building Inspector and
shall be accompanied by the fee required by the provisions of this Housing
Code.
      (2)   The Building Inspector may require the submission of an affidavit
stating such information, and he or she may cause a general inspection of the
structure or premises to be made.
   (b)   (1)   If it is found that a building or other structure is in
compliance with the provisions of this Housing Code and all other laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations applicable thereto, the Mayor shall issue a
certificate of occupancy for such building or structure which shall contain the
following information:
         A.   The street address or other identifying characteristics of the
building or other structure;
         B.   The name and address of the owner, and if the owner does not
reside on the premises, the name and address of the resident agent in charge of
the building or structure, and the name and address of the nonresident agent,
if any;
         C.   The exact nature and extent of the use or occupancy authorized;
and
         D.   The period for which such certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (2)   Such certificate shall not be valid beyond the last day of December
of the calendar year for which the certificate is issued.
   (c)   The Mayor shall have the power to revoke a certificate of occupancy if
any false statement shall be made by the applicant in connection with the
issuance of such certificate, or for noncompliance of a structure or its use
with the requirements of this Housing Code, or if the owner, agent or person in
charge of a structure refuses to comply with any provision of this Housing Code
required to be observed by him or her.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961; Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1349.03  NEW OR REMODELED BUILDINGS.
   The owner of a dwelling structure which will be completed or remodeled and
available for occupancy subsequent to January 1 of any year and which requires
a certificate of occupancy shall apply for such certificate as soon as
practicable, but in no event shall such structure be occupied in whole or in
part until such certificate of occupancy has been issued. Failure to so apply
will be deemed to be a violation of this Housing Code and will subject the
owner of the structure to the legal action and penalty prescribed herein.
(Ord. 5717, passed 4-5-1966)
§ 1349.04  POSTING OF CERTIFICATE.
   The owner, agent or person in charge of every dwelling structure shall cause
to be posted conspicuously at all times at the main entrance of such structure
the certificate of occupancy hereinbefore required. Such certificate shall be
provided with a protective covering and shall be securely affixed to the wall.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1349.05  FEES.
   (a)   An application for a certificate of occupancy, excluding an owner
occupied unit, shall be accompanied be a nonrefundable fee per dwelling unit as
set forth below:
      (1)   For residential dwellings of one to three units: $10 for the first
dwelling unit; $10 for the second dwelling unit; and $10 for a legal third
floor dwelling unit; and
      (2)   For residential dwellings four and above: $10 per unit.
   (b)   The fee for a certificate of occupancy for a new structure issued
after June 30 of any year for the remainder of such calendar year shall be
nonrefundable and shall be $10 per dwelling unit.
(Ord. 48-91, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 14-17, passed 6-6-2017)
§ 1349.06  CHANGE OF CERTIFICATE; REAPPLICATION; FEES.
   (a)   In the event there is a change in the resident agent or nonresident
agent as shown by the certificate of occupancy, the owner shall notify the
Building Inspector in writing within 30 days of such change, giving the name
and address of the new resident agent or nonresident agent. Failure to so
notify the Building Inspector within the specified time shall constitute a
violation of this Housing Code.
   (b)   In the event there is a change in the ownership of record, the
certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this Housing Code to
the former owner shall become null and void within 30 days of the recorded date
of such change of ownership and a new certificate must be obtained by the new
owner. Application for such new certificate shall be made not more than 30 days
after such change in ownership has occurred on forms supplied by the Building
Inspector. A fee of $25 shall be paid upon application for each such new
certificate. Such new certificate shall expire on the same date as that of the
certificate which it replaces.
   (c)   Any change in the nature or extent of the use or occupancy as
specified on the certificate shall render the certificate of occupancy null and
void upon the occurrence of such change. No such change is permissible under
this Housing Code unless such change has been approved by the proper city
authorities pursuant to this Housing Code, and unless a new certificate of
occupancy, incorporating such change, has been issued. Any such change without
the approval of the proper city authorities will subject the owner, operator or
agent to the penalties provided in this Housing Code.
   (d)   A fee of $10 per dwelling unit and/or a fee of $100 per business unit
shall be paid upon application for each such new certificate. If such change
involves the addition of any dwelling units to the number of dwelling units
previously authorized, an additional fee of $25 shall be charged for each such
additional dwelling unit, regardless of the date authorized. Such new
certificate shall expire on the same date as that of the certificate which it
replaces.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961; Ord. 48-91, passed 5-21-1991)
§ 1349.07  SALE OF MULTIPLE DWELLING.
   Before an owner enters into an agreement for the sale of a multiple
dwelling, he or she shall exhibit to the prospective buyer of such premises a
copy of the certificate of occupancy for the premises being sold. As evidence
of the owner’s compliance with the requirements of this section, the owner
shall obtain the signature of such prospective buyer, or his or her agent, on
the certificate of occupancy for such premises, or on a copy thereof in the
space indicated on the certificate, together with the date of such signing.
(Ord. 5784, passed 12-13-1966)
§ 1349.08  LATE FEE.
   (a)   Any person or persons, agent or officer of a corporation who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be assessed a late fee of $25 per unit with
a maximum of $1,000 if the registration packet is not received by January 15.
Any registration packets postmarked or received after the deadline date will be
subject to this late fee. The Mayor will be empowered to revoke the certificate
of authorized occupancy and inform any and all subsidizing agency(ies) that the
subject property is not in compliance of obtaining the annual certificate of
occupancy and may be deemed a public nuisance.
   (b)   Any person or persons, agent or officer of a corporation who violates
any provision of this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision
within ten days from the date of notice that such decision was given or mailed
to him or her, and have the ability to appear before the Board under §
1311.03 at a cost of $25. The fee must accompany the written request for an
appeal.
   (c)   In the event Building and Housing Department pursues court action to
gain compliance, an additional fee of $100 will be assessed. The penalty for
violations of Chapter 1349 includes the possible institution of legal action a
fine of up to $1,000 and imprisonment for not more than six months for each
offense. The penalty for non-compliance may also include having a block placed
upon the driver’s license of a violator. Each day such violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 06-18, passed 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 1350:  LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
Section
1350.01   Definitions
1350.02   Terms of rental agreements
1350.03   Terms barred from rental agreements
1350.04   Landlord obligations
1350.05   Tenant obligations
1350.06   Eviction of tenant allowing sex or child-victim offenders to occupy
premises near school
1350.07   Rent receipt required
1350.08   Payment of utilities
1350.09   Legal actions affecting leased premises
1350.10   Unlawful entry prohibited
1350.11   Landlord denied certain remedies
1350.12   Retaliation of landlord prohibited; relief
1350.13   Reasonable security against criminal activity
1350.14   Abandonment of dwelling unit by tenant; landlord remedies
1350.15   Failure of landlord to fulfill obligations; remedies of tenant
1350.16   Failure of tenant to fulfill obligations; remedies of landlord
 
1350.99   Penalty
§ 1350.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT . A structure or the part of a structure that is used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one person who maintains a household or
by two or more persons who maintain a common household.
   LANDLORD. The owner, lessor or sublessor of residential premises, his or her
agent, or any person authorized by him or her to manage the premises or to
receive rent from a tenant under a rental agreement.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT.  Any agreement or lease, written or oral, which
establishes or modifies the terms, conditions, rules or any other provisions
concerning the use and occupancy of residential premises by one of the parties.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES.  A dwelling unit for residential use and occupancy and
the structure of which it is a part, the facilities and appurtenances in it,
and the grounds, areas, and facilities for the use of tenants generally or the
use of which is promised the tenant. RESIDENTIAL PREMISES  do not include any
structures excluded from the definition found in Ohio R.C. § 5321.01.
   TENANT. A person entitled under a rental agreement to the use and occupancy
of residential premises to the exclusion of others.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.02  TERMS OF RENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   (a)   A landlord and tenant may include in a rental agreement any terms and
conditions including the term relating to rent, the duration of an agreement
and any other provisions governing the rights and obligations of the parties
that are not inconsistent with or prohibited by this chapter and Ohio R.C.
Chapter 5321.
   (b)   In the event that a landlord and tenant have a rental agreement for a
duration of six months or more, and the rental agreement includes a provision
for automatic renewal, the automatic renewal provision must be set forth in
clear, unambiguous language and must be printed on the rental agreement in bold
type that is at least twice the size of any other print on the page.
   (c)   (1)   If a rental agreement includes a provision that authorizes the
landlord to access the tenant a fee for late payment of the monthly rent, the
total amount of that late payment fee for any month may not exceed the larger
of:
         A.   Twenty-five dollars; or
         B.   Five percent of the monthly contract rent.
      (2)   In addition, the total amount of that late payment fee for any
amount may not exceed 25% of the portion of the monthly contract rent that the
tenant is obligated to pay under the rental agreement.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.03  TERMS BARRED FROM RENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   (a)   No provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 5321 may be modified
or waived by an oral or written agreement except as provided in division (f)
below.
   (b)   No warrant or attorney to confess judgment shall be recognized in any
rental agreement or in any other agreement between a landlord and tenant for
the recovery of rent or damages to the residential premises.
   (c)   No agreement to pay the landlord’s or tenant’s attorneys’ fees shall
be recognized in any rental agreement for residential premises or in any other
agreement between the landlord and tenant.
   (d)   No agreement by a tenant to the exculpation of limitation of any
liability of the landlord arising under law or to indemnify the landlord for
that liability or its related costs shall be recognized in any rental agreement
or in another agreement between a landlord and tenant.
   (e)   A rental agreement, or the assignment, conveyance, trust deed, or
security instrument of the landlord’ s interest in the rental agreement may not
permit the receipt of rent free of the obligation to comply with Ohio R.C. §
5321.04.
   (f)   The landlord may agree to assume responsibility for fulfilling any
duty or obligation imposed on a tenant by Ohio R.C. § 5321.05, other than the
obligation specified in division (A)(9) of that section.
   (g)   A landlord who knowingly includes a provision in a lease that is
prohibited by this section shall be liable for damages in favor of the tenant
in an amount of not less than $50 and not more than $500 for each violation,
together with reasonable attorneys fees.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.04  LANDLORD OBLIGATIONS.
   (a)   A landlord who is a party to a rental agreement shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of all applicable municipal, state or
federal building, housing, health and safety codes that materially affect the
health and safety of each tenant; and shall notify and provide each tenant with
a copy of a notice of violation of any building, housing, health and safety
codes within 48 hours upon receipt. The notice(s) shall further be posted in
all common areas, and five feet inside the entrance and exit of any and all
doors leading in and out of the rental property;
      (2)   Make all repairs and do whatever is reasonably necessary to put and
keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition;
      (3)   Keep all common areas of the premises in a safe and sanitary
condition;
      (4)   Maintain in good and safe working order and condition all
electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning
fixtures and appliances, and elevators, supplied or required to be supplied by
him or her;
      (5)   When he or she is a party to any rental agreements that cover four
or more dwelling units in the same structure, provide and maintain appropriate
receptacles for the removal of ashes, garbage, rubbish and other waste
incidental to the occupancy of a dwelling unit, and arrange for their removal;
      (6)   Supply running water, reasonable amounts of hot water and
reasonable heat at all times, except where the building that includes the
dwelling unit is not required by law to be equipped for that purpose, or the
dwelling unit is so constructed that heat or hot water is generated by an
installation within the exclusive control of the tenant and supplied by a
direct public utility connection;
      (7)   No abuse of the right of access conferred by division (B) of Ohio
R.C. § 5321.05;
      (8)   Except in the case of emergency or if it is impracticable to do so,
give the tenant reasonable notice of his or her intent to enter and enter only
at reasonable times. Twenty-four hours is presumed to be a reasonable notice in
the absence of evidence to the contrary;
      (9)   Promptly commence an action under Ohio R.C. Chapter 1923, after
complying with division (C) of Ohio R.C. § 5321.17, to remove a tenant from
particular residential premises, if the tenant fails to vacate the premises
within three days after the giving of the notice required by that division and
if the landlord has actual knowledge of or has reasonable cause to believe that
the tenant, any person in the tenant’s household or any person on the premises
with consent of the tenant previously has or presently is engaged in a
violation as described in division (A)(6)(a)(i) of Ohio R.C. § 1923.02, whether
or not the tenant or other person has been charged with, has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of, or has been determined to be a delinquent child for an
act that, if committed by an adult would be a violation as described in that
division. Such actual knowledge or reasonable cause to believe shall be
determined in accordance with that division. A landlord shall have the
authority to evict any person or persons whose actions have caused a municipal
law enforcement officer to visit the rental property three times, or whose
actions have caused any county, state or federal law enforcement official to
respond to or process any warrant on the premises once; and
      (10)   After an eviction has successfully been completed per court order,
any tenant or tenant related property that has been “set out” from the subject
dwelling unit as a result of said eviction shall be removed from the premises
or its surrounding area within 48 hours.
   (b)   If the landlord makes an entry in violation of division (a)(8) above,
makes a lawful entry in an unreasonable manner or makes repeated demands for
entry otherwise lawful that have the effect of harassing the tenant, the tenant
may recover actual damages resulting from the entry or demands, obtain
injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct, and obtain a
judgment for reasonable attorneys’ fees or may terminate the rental agreement.
      (1)   Every landlord shall be required to provide each tenant with a copy
of the state and municipal Landlord Tenant Law and ordinance with every lease.
      (2)   Every landlord shall be required to notify each tenant within 24
hours upon receipt of shut-off or disconnect notice to any utility commonly
used by all tenants, such as electricity, water or natural gas. The notice(s)
shall further be posted in all common areas, and five feet inside the entrance
and exit of any and all doors leading in and out of the rental property.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 10-17, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1350.05  TENANT OBLIGATIONS.
   (a)   A tenant who is a party to a rental agreement shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Keep that part of the premises that he or she occupies and uses
safe and sanitary;
      (2)   Dispose of all rubbish, garbage, and other waste in a clean, safe
and sanitary manner;
      (3)   Keep all plumbing fixtures in the dwelling unit or used by him or
her as clean as their condition permits;
      (4)   Use and operate all electrical and plumbing fixtures properly;
      (5)   Comply with the requirements imposed on tenants by all applicable
state and local housing, health and safety codes;
      (6)   Personally refrain and forbid any other person who is on the
premises with his or her permission from intentionally or negligently
destroying, defacing, damaging or removing any fixture, appliance or other part
of the premises;
      (7)   Maintain in good working order and condition any range,
refrigerator, washer, dryer, dishwasher or other appliances supplied by the
landlord and required to be maintained by the tenant under the terms and
conditions of a written rental agreement;
      (8)   Conduct himself or herself and require other persons on the
premises with his or her consent to conduct themselves in a manner that will
not disturb his or her neighbors’ peaceful enjoyment of the premises; and
      (9)   Conduct himself or herself, and require persons in his or her
household and persons on the premises with his or her consent to conduct
themselves, in connection with the premises so as not to violate the
prohibitions contained in Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925 and 3719, or in municipal
ordinances that are substantially similar to any section in either of those
chapters, which relate to controlled substances.
   (b)   The tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent for the landlord to
enter into the dwelling unit in order to inspect the premises, make ordinary,
necessary or agreed repairs, decorations, alterations or improvements, deliver
parcels that are too large for the tenant’s mail facilities, supply necessary
or agreed services or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual
purchasers, mortgagees, tenants, workmen or contractors.
   (c)   (1)   If the tenant violates any provision of this section, other than
division (a)(9) of this section, the landlord may recover any actual damages
that result from the violation together with reasonable attorneys’ fees. This
remedy is in addition to any right of the landlord to terminate the rental
agreement; to maintain an action for the possession of the premises; or to
obtain injunctive relief to compel access under division (b) above.
      (2)   If the tenant violates division (a)(9) above and if the landlord
has actual knowledge of or has reasonable cause to believe that the tenant, any
person in the tenant’s household or any person on the premises with the consent
of the tenant previously has or presently is engaged in a violation as
described in division (A)(6)(a)(i) of Ohio R.C. § 1923.02, whether or not the
tenant or other person has been charged with, has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of, or has been determined to be a delinquent child for an act that,
if committed by an adult, would be a violation as described in that division,
then the landlord promptly shall give the notice required by Ohio R.C. §
5321.17(C). If the tenant fails to vacate the premises within three days after
the giving of that notice then the landlord promptly shall comply with division
(A)(9) of Ohio R.C. § 5321.04. For purposes of this division (c), actual
knowledge or reasonable cause to believe as described in this division (c)
shall be determined in accordance with division (A)(6)(a)(i) of Ohio R.C. §
1923.02.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.06  EVICTION OF TENANT ALLOWING SEX OR CHILD-VICTIM OFFENDERS TO OCCUPY
PREMISES NEAR SCHOOL.
   (a)   (1)   No tenant of any residential premises located within 1,000 feet
of any school premises or preschool or child day-care center premises shall
allow any person to occupy these residential premises if both of the following
apply regarding the person:
         A.   The person’s name appears on the state registry of sex offenders
and child-victim offenders maintained under Ohio R.C. § 2950.13; and
         B.   The state registry of sex offenders and child-victim offenders
indicates that the person was convicted of or pleaded guilty to either a
sexually oriented offense that is not a registration-exempt sexually oriented
offense or a child-victim oriented offense in a criminal prosecution and was
not sentenced to a serious youthful offender dispositional sentence for that
offense.
      (2)   If a tenant allows occupancy in violation of this section or a
person establishes a residence or occupies residential premises in violation of
Ohio R.C. § 2950.034, the landlord for the residential premises that are the
subject of the rental agreement or other tenancy may terminate the rental
agreement or other tenancy of the tenant and all other occupants.
   (b)   If a landlord is authorized to terminate a rental agreement or other
tenancy pursuant to division (a) above but does not so terminate the rental
agreement or other tenancy, the landlord is not liable in a tort or other civil
action in damages for any injury, death or loss to person or property that
allegedly results from that decision.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.07  RENT RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   Upon a tenant’s written request, the landlord shall provide the tenant with
a signed receipt for the security deposit and all rental payments except for
payments made by personal check of the tenant, at the time the security deposit
or rental payments are made. The tenant may make this request for a receipt,
relative to the security deposit and/or all rental payments, in one written
request. A tenant may bring an action for mandatory or injunctive relief to
secure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.08  PAYMENT OF UTILITIES.
   (a)   A landlord who is a party to a rental agreement shall pay for the
electric, gas and water services for the tenant’s dwelling unit unless:
      (1)   The applicable utility service is provided to the tenant’s dwelling
unit through an individual meter or submeter that measures usage only in the
tenant’s dwelling;
      (2)   The rental agreement provides that, with respect to the applicable
utility service, the tenant shall pay only for the cost of the utility service
that is provided through the individual meter or submeter during the tenancy;
      (3)   The rental agreement provides that the tenant shall have reasonable
access at all times to the individual meter or submeter, for the purpose of
reading the meter or submeter, and the landlord grants the tenant such access
to the individual meter or submeter; and
      (4)   The provisions in the rental agreement that implement this section
are stated in clear and unambiguous language.
   (b)   Landlords receiving notice of any threat to shut off any utility or
services shall, within 48 hours of receipt of said notice, advise tenants of
said threat by leaving a copy of such notice under the door of the main
entrance to the tenants’ premises.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.09  LEGAL ACTIONS AFFECTING LEASED PREMISES.
   Landlords receiving notice of any threat to the filing of a foreclosure or
any other legal action that may result in the tenant being deprived of his or
her right to peaceful enjoyment of the leased premises, shall within 48 hours
of receipt of said notice, advise tenants by leaving a copy of such notice, or
other written notice, under the door of the main entrance to the tenants’
premises.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.10  UNLAWFUL ENTRY PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except in the case of an emergency or if it is impracticable to do so,
a landlord shall give a tenant reasonable notice of his or her intent to enter
the leased premises and enter only at reasonable times. Twenty-four hours is
presumed to be reasonable notice in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
   (b)   If a landlord makes an entry in violation of division (a) above, makes
a lawful entry in an unreasonable manner, or makes repeated demands for entry
otherwise lawful that have the effect of harassing the tenant, the tenant may:
      (1)   At the tenant’s option, either recover actual damages resulting
from the entry or demands, or recover damages of an amount not less than $50
nor more than $500;
      (2)   Obtain injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct;
      (3)   Obtain a judgment for reasonable attorneys’ fees; and/or
      (4)   Terminate the rental agreement.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.11  LANDLORD DENIED CERTAIN REMEDIES.
   (a)   No landlord of residential premises shall initiate any act, including
the termination of utilities or services, exclusion from the premises, or
threat of any unlawful act against a tenant or a tenant whose right to
possession has been terminated, for the purpose of recovering possession of
residential premises, other than as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapters 1923, 5303
and 5321.
   (b)   No landlord of residential premises shall seize the furnishings or
possessions of a tenant, or of a tenant whose right to possession has
terminated, for the purpose of recovering rent payments, other than in
accordance with an order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   A landlord who violates this section shall be liable in a civil action
for: at the tenant’s option, either all damages caused to the tenant or to the
tenant whose right to possession has been terminated, or damages of an amount
not less than $50 nor more than $500; and the tenant’s reasonable attorneys’
fees.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.12  RETALIATION OF LANDLORD PROHIBITED; RELIEF.
   (a)   Subject to division (d) below, a landlord may not retaliate against a
tenant by increasing the tenant’s rent, decreasing services that are due to the
tenant, bringing or threatening to bring an action for possession of the
tenant’s premises, terminating or threatening to terminate the tenant’s rental
agreement, or refusing to renew the tenant’s rental agreement or to continue
the tenant’s tenancy because:
      (1)   The tenant has complained to an appropriate government agency of a
violation of a building, housing, health or safety code that is applicable to
the premises, and the violation materially affects health and safety;
      (2)   The tenant has complained to the landlord of any violation of Ohio
R.C. § 5321.04; or
      (3)   The tenant has joined with other tenants for the purpose of
negotiating or dealing collectively with the landlord on any of the terms and
conditions of a rental agreement.
   (b)   (1)   If a landlord acts in violation of division (a) above, the
tenant may:
         A.   Use the retaliatory action of the landlord as a defense to an
action by the landlord to recover possession of the premises;
         B.   Recover possession of the premises; or
         C.   Terminate the rental agreement.
      (2)   In addition, the tenant may recover from the landlord, at the
tenant’s option, either any actual damages, together with reasonable attorneys’
fees, or damages of not less than $50 nor more than $500, together with
reasonable attorneys’ fees.
   (c)   Nothing in division (a) above shall prohibit a landlord from
increasing the rent to reflect the cost of improvements installed by the
landlord in or about the premises or to reflect an increase in other costs of
operation of the premises.
   (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (a) and (b) above, a landlord may bring an
action under Ohio R.C. Chapter 1923 for possession of the premises if:
      (1)   The tenant is in default in the payment of rent;
      (2)   The violation of the applicable building, housing, health or safety
code that the tenant complained of was primarily caused by any act or lack of
reasonable care by the tenant or by any other person in the tenant’s household,
or by anyone on the premises with the consent of the tenant; or
      (3)   Compliance with the applicable building, housing, health or safety
code would require alteration, remodeling or demolition of the premises which
would effectively deprive the tenant of the use of the dwelling unit.
   (e)   The maintenance of an action by the landlord under division (d) above
does not prevent the tenant from recovering damages for any violation by the
landlord of the rental agreement or of Ohio R.C. § 5321.04.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.13  REASONABLE SECURITY AGAINST CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
   (a)   This section applies only to residential premises that are located in
a multi-family structure or a multi-family development.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURE . A structure that contains 30 or more dwelling
units.
      MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT.  A tract of land or contiguous tracts of land
on which there are 30 or more dwelling units of the same landlord.
      MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURE OR DEVELOPMENT.  A multi-family structure or a
multi-family development.
      SAFETY DIRECTOR.  The Safety Director of the city or his or her designee.
      SECURITY AUDIT.  The procedure in which:
         A.   The Safety Director shall conduct a full and thorough analysis of
the common areas of a multi-family structure or development to determine
whether the common areas have reasonable security measures against criminal
activity;
         B.   In conducting this analysis, among other things, the Safety
Director shall conduct a voluntary survey of the tenants of the multi-family
structure or development without recording the names of the tenants;
         C.   In conducting this analysis, the Safety Director shall consider,
among other things, the statement of reasons (if any) in the petition that
requested the security audit, the responses (if any) to the Safety Director’s
survey of the tenants, the number and type of service calls that the city’s
Police Department has received concerning the multi-family structure or
development, or any tenant or visitors living therein, and the Safety
Director’s inspection of the common areas of the multi-family structure or
development;
         D.   Based on this analysis, the Safety Director shall determine and
specify the additional security measures, if any, that the landlord shall be
obligated to implement in the common areas of the multi-family structure or
development to provide the common areas with reasonable security measures
against criminal activity;
         E.   For each of these specified additional security measures, the
Safety Director shall determine and specify a reasonable time period within
which the landlord shall implement it;
         F.   These specified additional security measures may include, among
other things, cameras, lighting, locks for windows or doors, renovation of
windows, doors, or entrance areas, crime reporting procedures, and/or onsite
security personnel for specified hours; and
         G.   The Safety Director shall prepare a written report that includes
all of the Safety Director’s findings, determinations, and specifications in
the security audit.
   (c)   The tenants of a multi-family structure or development may file a
petition with the Safety Director that requests a security audit of the multi-
family structure or development in which they reside.
      (1)   The Safety Director shall prepare, and distribute to tenants at no
charge, a form that tenants may use, but are not required to use for the
petition.
      (2)   In the petition, the tenants shall sign their names, state their
addresses, and state their request for a security audit of the multi-family
structure or development in which they reside.
      (3)   In the petition, the tenants shall identify the name and address of
at least one tenant, and may identify the name and address of up to five
tenants, who shall receive service of any documents that, under this section,
the Safety Director is required to serve on the tenants.
      (4)   In the petition, the tenants may state with specificity, but are
not required to state with specificity, their reasons for requesting a security
audit.
      (5)   The petition shall be signed only by tenants of the multi-family
structure or development and only by one tenant per dwelling unit of the multi-
family structure or development. The number of such tenants who sign the
petition must equal at least 10% of the total number of dwelling units in the
multi- family structure or development.
      (6)   The tenants shall file the petition with the office of the Safety
Director. At the time of the filing, the office of the Safety Director shall
time and date stamp the original petition and the tenant’s copy of the
petition.
      (7)   Within three days after the filing of the petition, the tenants
shall serve the landlord of the multi-family structure or development with a
copy of the petition by delivering or mailing it to the address of the landlord
or to the place where their rent is normally paid.
   (d)   Within ten days after receiving service of the petition, the landlord
shall provide the office of the Safety Director with a written statement of the
landlord’s name and address, for the purpose of receiving documents that, under
this section, the Safety Director is required to serve on the landlord, If the
landlord fails to provide the office of the Safety Director with that
information in a timely manner, the Safety Director shall make reasonable
efforts to identify an appropriate name and address for the landlord, and based
on these efforts, shall determine the name and address to be used for such
services.
   (e)   Within ten days after the filing of the petition with the office of
the Safety Director, the Safety Director shall make an initial assessment, in
writing, as to whether a security audit of the multi-family structure or
development is appropriate and shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a
copy of the initial assessment.
      (1)   In the initial assessment, the Safety Director shall find that a
security audit of the multi- family structure or development is appropriate if
the requirements in this section for filing a petition are met and one or more
of the following criteria are met:
         A.   During the 30-day period preceding the filing of the petition,
the city’s Police Department has received 15 or more service calls concerning
the multi-family structure or development;
         B.   Within ten days after the filing of the petition, the City
Council member of the ward in which the multi-family structure or development
is located advises the Safety Director, in writing, that a security audit of
the multi-family structure or development is appropriate; or
         C.   There is any other reasonable basis for concluding that, if a
security audit is conducted, there is a reasonable possibility that the Safety
Director will specify additional security measures that the landlord will be
obligated to implement in the common areas of the multi-family structure or
development.
      (2)   In determining whether any such reasonable basis exists, the Safety
Director shall consider, among other things, the statement of reasons (if any)
in the petition that requested the security audit, the number and type of
service calls that the city’s Police Department has received concerning the
multi-family structure or development, and the Safety Director’s preliminary
inspection of the common areas of the multi-family structure or development.
      (3)   The Safety Director shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a
copy of the initial assessment by delivering or mailing it to their respective
addresses.
   (f)   If the Safety Director determines in an initial assessment that a
security audit of the multi-family structure or development is not appropriate,
the Safety Director shall not conduct a security audit of the multi-family
structure or development.
   (g)   If the Safety Director determines in an initial assessment that a
security audit of the multi-family structure or development is appropriate,
within 30 days after the Safety Director serves the tenants and the landlord
with the initial assessment, the Safety Director shall complete the security
audit and shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a copy of the written
report of the security audit. The Safety Director shall serve the tenants and
the landlord with a copy of the written report of the security audit by
delivering or mailing it to their respective addresses.
   (h)   If the Safety Director determines in a security audit that the
landlord is obligated to implement additional security measures in the common
areas of the multi-family structure or development, the landlord is obligated
to implement these security measures within the reasonable time period(s)
specified in the security audit.
   (i)   The landlord’s obligation under this section and the security audit to
implement the security measures specified in the security audit, within the
reasonable time period(s) specified in the security audit, is an implied term
of any rental agreement for any dwelling unit in the multi-family structure or
development. If the landlord breaches that implied term of a rental agreement,
it constitutes a breach of an obligation imposed upon the landlord by the
rental agreement for the purposes of Ohio R.C. § 5321.07(A).
   (j)   The tenants of a multi-family structure or development may not file a
petition pursuant to this section if, relative to the same multi-family
structure or development, a petition has been filed and served properly
pursuant to this section within the preceding 12 months.
   (k)   If the landlord requests the Safety Director to inspect the multi-
family structure or development to determine whether the landlord has
implemented the landlord’s obligation under the security audit, within 30 days
of the request, the Safety Director shall make that determination, in writing,
and shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a copy of that determination.
The Safety Director shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a copy of
that determination by delivering or mailing it to their respective addresses.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.14  ABANDONMENT OF DWELLING UNIT BY TENANT; LANDLORD REMEDIES.
   (a)   For the purposes of this section, ABANDONMENT means the tenant has
vacated the dwelling unit without notice to the landlord and does not intend to
return, which intention may be evidenced by the combination of the tenant’s
removal of substantially all of the tenant’s possessions and personal effects
from the dwelling unit plus one of the following:
      (1)   Nonpayment of rent for at least two months;
      (2)   Termination of the utilities to the dwelling unit at the request of
the tenant; or
      (3)   An express statement by the tenant to the landlord that the tenant
does not intend to occupy the dwelling unit after a specified date.
   (b)   (1)   If the tenant abandons the dwelling unit, the landlord may send
notice to the tenant at the tenant’s last-known address both by regular mail,
postage prepaid, and by certified mail, return receipt requested, stating that:
         A.   The landlord has reason to believe that the tenant has abandoned
the dwelling unit;
         B.   The landlord intends to render and take possession of the
dwelling unit unless the tenant contacts the landlord within ten days of
receipt of the notice;
         C.   If the tenant does not timely contact the landlord, the landlord
intends to remove any possessions and personal effects remaining in the
dwelling unit and re-rent the premises; and
         D.   If the tenant does not reclaim such possessions and personal
effects within 30 days after the notice, the landlord will dispose of them as
permitted by this section.
      (2)   The notice shall be in clear and simple language and shall include
a telephone number and a mailing address at which the landlord can be
contacted. If the notice is returned as undeliverable, or the tenant fails to
contact the landlord within ten days of the receipt of the notice, the landlord
may render and take possession of the dwelling unit, at which time any rental
agreement or lease still in effect shall be deemed to be terminated.
   (c)   The landlord shall not be required to serve a notice to vacate as
provided in Ohio R.C. § 1923.04 or to bring a forcible entry and detainer
action as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 1923 to obtain possession or occupancy
of a dwelling unit that, according to the provisions of this section the tenant
has abandoned. Nothing in this section shall relieve a landlord from complying
with the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapters 1923 and 5321, if the landlord knows,
or reasonably should know, that the tenant has not abandoned the dwelling unit.
   (d)   The landlord shall inventory any possessions and personal effects of
the tenant that are in the dwelling unit and shall remove and keep them for not
less than 30 days. The tenant may reclaim such possessions and personal effects
from the landlord within that 30-day period. If the tenant does not reclaim
such possessions and personal effects by the end of that 30-day period, the
landlord may dispose of them as the landlord deems appropriate.
   (e)   No action shall be brought under Ohio R.C. § 5321.15 against a
landlord who takes action in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.15  FAILURE OF LANDLORD TO FULFILL OBLIGATIONS; REMEDIES OF TENANT.
   (a)   If a landlord fails to fulfill any obligation imposed upon him or her
by Ohio R.C. § 5321.04, other than the obligation specified in division (A)(9)
of that section, or any obligation imposed upon him or her by the rental
agreement, if the conditions of the residential premises are such that the
tenant reasonably believes that a landlord has failed to fulfill any such
obligations, or if a governmental agency has found that the premises are not in
compliance with building, housing, health or safety codes that apply to any
condition of the premises that could materially affect the health and safety of
an occupant, the tenant may give notice in writing to the landlord, specifying
the acts, omissions, or code violations that constitute noncompliance. The
notice shall be sent to the person or place where rent is normally paid.
   (b)   If a landlord receives the notice described in division (a) above and
after receipt of the notice fails to remedy the condition within a reasonable
time, considering the severity of the condition and the time necessary to
remedy it, or within 30 days, whichever is sooner, and if the tenant is current
in rent payments due under the rental agreement, the tenant may do one of the
following:
      (1)   Deposit all rent that is due and thereafter becomes due the
landlord with the clerk of the municipal or county court having jurisdiction in
the territory in which the residential premises are located;
      (2)   Apply to the court for an order directing the landlord to remedy
the condition. As part of the application, the tenant may deposit rent pursuant
to division (b)(1) above, may apply for an order reducing the periodic rent due
the landlord until the landlord remedies the condition, and may apply for an
order to use the rent deposited to remedy the condition. In any order issued
pursuant to this division, the court may require the tenant to deposit rent
with the clerk of court as provided in division (b)(1) above; or
      (3)   Terminate the rental agreement.
   (c)   This section does not apply to any landlord who is a party to rental
agreements that cover three or fewer dwelling units and who provides notice of
that fact in a written rental agreement or, in the case of an oral tenancy,
delivers written notice of that fact to the tenant at the time of initial
occupancy by the tenant.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a dwelling unit occupied by a student
tenant.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.16  FAILURE OF TENANT TO FULFILL OBLIGATIONS; REMEDIES OF LANDLORD.
   If the tenant fails to fulfill any obligation imposed upon him or her by
Ohio R.C. § 5321.05 that materially affects health and safety, other than the
obligation described in division (A)(9) of that section, the landlord may
deliver a written notice of this fact to the tenant specifying the act or
omission that constitutes noncompliance with the pertinent obligations and
specifying that the rental agreement will terminate upon a date specified in
the notice, not less than 30 days after receipt of the notice. If the tenant
fails to remedy the condition specified in the notice, the rental agreement
shall terminate as provided in the notice.
(Ord. 53-08, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 1350.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm, entity or corporation, including, but not limited
to, the owner of the property, his or her agents and assigns, property manager,
and any contractor or subcontractor who violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this regulation is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be fined no more than $1,000 or imprisoned for no more than six months,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   The imposition of any other penalties provided herein shall not
preclude the city instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of
proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful development, or to restrain,
correct, or abate a violation, or to require compliance with the provisions of
this regulation or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations, or
the orders of the city.
CHAPTER 1351:  BASIC STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY
Section
1351.01   Leasing for occupancy restrictions
1351.02   Limitation on occupancy
1351.03   Standards adopted
1351.04   Rental registration
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Ch. 527
   Noxious odors, see §
521.07
   Weed removal, see §
1379.06
§ 1351.01  LEASING FOR OCCUPANCY RESTRICTIONS.
   No owner, operator or agent shall rent or lease or offer for rental or lease
any dwelling unit, dwelling structure or any part thereof which does not comply
with the provisions of this Housing Code.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1351.02  LIMITATION ON OCCUPANCY.
   The occupancy of any dwelling unit shall be limited to one, and only one,
family and to any authorized persons occupying such dwelling unit with such
family.
(Ord. 5587, passed 11-17-1964)
§ 1351.03  STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The basic standards for residential occupancy including multiple dwellings
are contained in the BOCA National Property Maintenance Code adopted under
Chapter 1309.
§ 1351.04  RENTAL REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Certificate of rental registration required.
      (1)   For purposes of this chapter, a rental unit is defined as any part
of a building being used, designed or intended to be used as an individual’s
private residence. A rental unit includes a unit occupied by one or more
persons regardless of whether the occupant pays rent or provides anything else
of value to the titled owner in consideration for occupying the structure. A
unit is not considered a rental unit if the titled owner is one of the
occupants.
      (2)   No owner of rental units shall fail to register with the Department
of Building and Housing all rental units that the owner owns. Failure to
register each rental unit is a separate violation.
   (b)   Issuance of certificate of rental registration; revocation.
      (1)   Application for a certificate of rental registration required by
the provisions of this Housing Code shall be made annually, on or before
January 15 on forms supplied by the Director of Building and Housing.
Information to be supplied on an application shall include, but is not limited
to, the following:
         A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or owners of
the premises. In the case of a partnership, the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of all general partners. In the cases of a corporation, the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of the current statutory agent and all
corporate officers of the corporation. The address for corporations and
partnerships shall be the principal place of business and the address for
persons shall be the home address; and
         B.   The name, address and telephone number of the managing agent of
the premises, if any. In the case of a partnership, the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of the current statutory agent and all corporate officers of
the corporation. The address for corporations and partnerships shall be the
principal place of business and the address for persons shall be the home
address.
      (2)   If the owner of a rental unit resides or is located outside of the
county, the owner shall designate in his or her application the name, current
address, and telephone number of an agent who is a natural person and who
resides within the county, and who is authorized by the owner to receive
service of a notice of violation on the owner’s behalf. An agent designated
under this section shall be of sound mind and at least 18 years of age. It is
the owner’s obligation to notify the Director of Building and Housing, in
writing, of any change in the name, address, and/or telephone number of any
agent designated.
      (3)   Upon registration, the Director of Building and Housing shall issue
a certificate of rental registration containing the following:
         A.   The street address or other identifying characteristics of the
building or other structure;
         B.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or owners of
the premises. In the case of a partnership, the names of all general partners;
         C.   If the record owner is a corporation, the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the current statutory agent and all corporate officers of
said that corporation;
         D.   The name, address and telephone number of the managing agent of
the premises, if any;
         E.   The name, address (including the dwelling unit, apartment or room
number), and telephone number of the superintendent, custodian, or other
individual employed by the owner or managing agent to provide regular
maintenance services, if any;
         F.   The name, address, and telephone number of an individual
representative of the owner or managing agent who may be reached or contacted
at any time in the event of an emergency affecting the premises of any rental
unit in that structure, including such emergencies as the failure of a utility
system or service, and who has the authority to make emergency decisions
concerning the building including its repairs or expenditures;
         G.   The use district, ward and census tract in which the structure is
located; or
         H.   The use and occupancy authorized.
      (4)   Copies of all applications and certificates of rental registration
shall be kept on file by the Director of Building and Housing as a public
record, except those portions that are prohibited from being released by state
or federal law.
      (5)   The Director of Building and Housing has the power to revoke a
certificate of rental registration if the applicant makes any false statement
in connection with such registration, or if the structure that was covered by
it is no longer in compliance with the requirements of this code, or if the
owner, agent, or person in charge of a structure refuses to comply with any
provision of this code required for the use, maintenance and/or occupancy of a
structure. If the Director revokes a certificate of rental registration, the
owner may appeal the Director’s action to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Notice
of such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Board within ten
days from the date of the Director’s action. The Board may sustain, disapprove
or modify the Director’s action, and the Board’s decision shall be final.
      (6)   A.   An owner of a structure shall give prompt notification of a
change in the name, address and/or telephone number of a corporation,
partnership or person listed on a certificate of rental registration under
subsections (3)B. through F. of this section to the Director of Building and
Housing within seven days after the change occurs. If the owner fails to give
written notification as required in this section, then the Director may revoke
the certificates of rental registration until such time that the owner has
provided in writing the changed name, address, and/or telephone number.
         B.   In addition to revocation of the certificate of rental
registration, whoever violates subsection 6. above shall be fined not more than
$200. Each three-month period during which the violation continues is a
separate offense.
   (c)   Inspections; right of entry.
      (1)   All rental units shall be subject to inspection for the purpose of
determining compliance with the provisions of this code and all other
applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Inspections shall be
conducted in accordance with the rental unit inspection schedule established by
the Director of Building and Housing.
      (2)   The Director of Building and Housing and his or her duly authorized
agents or inspectors may enter at reasonable times any rental unit registered
under this chapter in accordance with the right of entry defined in §
1373.02.
   (d)   Fees.
      (1)   A.   An application for a certificate of rental registration shall
be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee calculated under the following schedule.
         B.   Fifty dollars per rental unit for the first 74 units and $50 for
every unit thereafter.
      (2)   Rental unit exemptions:
         A.   No fee shall be charged for a unit occupied by the owner.
         B.   The Director of Building and Housing shall create rules and
regulations establishing guidelines for fee exemptions.
      (3)   No fees shall be collected from any one owner for all properties
owned by that owner within the city in excess of $40,000 per calendar year.
      (4)   A certificate may be renewed prior to expiration on application and
payment of the fee described above. A certificate that has expired may be
renewed on payment of an additional fee of $100 per property or unit.
   (e)   Rental registry. The Department of Building and Housing will set up a
rental registry and will coordinate efforts and share the information in the
registry with the Finance Department.
   (f)   Lead maintenance certificates and lead-based paint free certificate.
      (1)   Whenever a term is used in this chapter that pertains to a lead-
based paint free certificate or lead maintenance certificate, that term shall
be given the meaning it has in the state statutes.
      (2)   A lead maintenance certificate and a lead-based paint free
certificate shall meet the requirements of the statutes promulgated by the
state.
      (3)   The city is enacting and enforcing the provisions of this chapter
regarding lead maintenance certificates and lead-based paint free certificates
only to promote the public health, safety and welfare and for obligations
imposed upon the state performed by the city’s Building Department under
delegation by the state. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers
and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages
to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. In
addition, nothing in this chapter may be interpreted to limit the city’s
statutory immunity afforded by R.C. Chapter 2744.
      (4)   For a property to be covered by a lead maintenance certificate or
lead-based paint free certificate, the owner shall submit a copy of the lead
maintenance certificate or lead-based paint free certificate with the
application for a certificate of rental registration.
City of East Cleveland
Department of Building & Housing
14340 Euclid Avenue
East Cleveland, Ohio  44112
Certificate of Rental Registration Application
All rental property owners/agents or person in charge of any rental property
designed or intended to be used as rental dwelling units located in East
Cleveland, OH, whether or not such units are located within the  same structure
or any part thereof must register and pay rent registration fees of $100.00 per
unit and obtain a Certificate of Rental Registration issued by the Department
of Building & Housing for such structures or units.  No fee is required for the
unit that the owner occupies.  Please note this not voluntary it is a
requirement of Chapter 1351. Of the East Cleveland Codified Ordinances.  The
fee is due December 1st to be in compliance.
Applicant/Owner Information
Name:                       SSN:                  Phone:    
Address:                      
City:                            State:                   ZIP Code:    
Alternate Mailing Address:    
City:                             State:                   ZIP Code:    
Cell Phone:                         Email:                  Alternate Phone:
   
Rental Property Information
List only the address of property that you are registering below.
Property Address:                                    # of Units:    
City:                            State:                  ZIP Code:    
Name of Tenant at Property:    
Address:                         Suite/Unit:                
City:                            State:          Zip Code:        Phone:    
Partnership and Corporation Information
Business Name:    
Please list the name of each officer            President:                Vice
Pres:    
General Partner                                      Other:    
Address:                         City/State:                Zip Code:    
Alternate Mailing Address:                     State:                   Zip
Code:    
Custodian/Superintendent
Name:   
Address:                         City/State:                  Zip Code:    
Phone:                         Cell/Phone:                  Alternate Phone:
   
Emergency Contacts (please list at least two)
Name:                         Address:                        Phone:    
If you have questions regarding this application, please call (216) 681-2802 or
you may come in person to East Cleveland City Hall, 14340 Euclid Avenue, Room
6, East Cleveland, Ohio  44112.
Signature of applicant:                                     Date:
The City of East Cleveland
Tenant Listing
Please list below the names of each occupant, age 18 years and older, in each
suite at the present time.
Suite # Number of People Occupant Full First and Last Name (print clearly)
Suite # Number of People Occupant Full First and Last Name (print clearly)
 
(Ord. passed 19-18, passed - -2018; Ord. 31-19, passed 7-10-2019; Ord. 03-20,
passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 1355:  ROOMING HOUSES, HOTELS AND FOSTER HOMES
Section
1355.01   Definitions
1355.02   Compliance with laws, rules and regulations
1355.03   Required facilities; cellar rooms; ingress and egress; cooking
prohibited; Housing Code compliance
1355.04   Renting to minors under 12 or the aged
1355.05   License required; expiration
1355.06   License fees; issuance and term
1355.07   Agent’s responsibilities
1355.08   Standard hotel register
1355.09   False signature
1355.10   Assignment of persons of opposite sex
1355.11   Unlawful occupancy by persons of opposite sex
1355.12   Renting room more than once per night
1355.13   License suspension or revocation
1355.14   Inspection; right of entry
1355.15   Owner’s responsibility
1355.16   Board of Zoning Appeals; powers and duties
1355.17   Appeal procedure
1355.18   Conflict and validity
 
1355.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Class U3 District permitted use, see §
1123.01(c)(3)
   Occupancy certificate or temporary rooming house license required, see §
1349.01
   Zoning ordinance restrictions on boarding and rooming houses, see §
1125.09
§ 1355.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the plural
and the plural includes the singular.
   AGED PERSON . A person who has attained the age of 65 years or more.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector pursuant to this chapter, or to
other state and city laws, rules and regulations, or approved by any other
authority designated by the ordinances of the city to give approval to the
matter in question.
   BASEMENT. A space with a floor level two feet or more below adjoining
ground, but having less than one-half its clear height below adjoining ground.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  When used herein, shall be construed as though followed
by the words “or his or her authorized agent or representative”.
   CELLAR. A space having half or more than half of its clear height below
adjoining ground.
   DORMITORY. A building or portion thereof used for sleeping purposes in
connection with a school, college or other institution, which must also be
located within the city.
   DWELLING. A building intended or designed to be occupied by not more than
two families living separately and independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A group of rooms arranged, maintained or designed to be
occupied by a single family and shall consist of a complete bathroom with
toilet, lavatory and tub or shower facilities; one, and only one, complete
kitchen or kitchenette with approved cooking, refrigeration and sink
facilities; and approved living and sleeping facilities; all of which are used
exclusively by such family and by any authorized persons occupying such
dwelling unit with the family. Where the required facilities for a DWELLING
UNIT are not contiguous, the Building Inspector shall determine whether such
facilities constitute a dwelling unit. The words DWELLING UNIT, APARTMENT  and
SUITE  shall be considered synonymous.
   FAMILY. Has the same meaning as provided under §
1341.08.
   FOSTER CHILD.  Any child under the age of 18 years and not a member of the
family or related to a member of the family by blood or marriage who is
received apart from his or her parents and boarded, kept or maintained for
compensation by such family.
   FOSTER HOME.  Any building or part of any building occupied in such a manner
that a child or children under the age of 18 years and not a member of the
family or related to a member of the family by blood or marriage is received
apart from his or her parents for board, keep or maintenance for compensation
by such family.
   HOTEL. A building originally designed for hotel purposes and meeting all
requirements of the state and city laws, rules and regulations, in which all or
a part thereof is occupied, used or maintained, advertised or held out to the
public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests and in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of such guests. For the purposes of this chapter, the word HOTEL includes
motels and motor courts meeting these requirements.
   INFIRM PERSON.  A person who, by reason of his or her age, or through a
physical or mental defect or for any other reason, is unable to perform the
necessary act or acts usually performed by a normal person in full possession
of his or her mental or physical faculties or one who by reason of physical or
mental defects or ailments is unable to perform such act or acts as may be
necessary for the preservation of his or her life or person in an emergency.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  A building containing three or more dwelling units, or
two or more dwelling units above the first or ground floor, or one or more
dwelling units if the building contains a use other than a dwelling use. For
purposes of applying this definition, any building which is being operated as a
rooming house pursuant to a valid city license shall not be classed as a
MULTIPLE DWELLING . The words MULTIPLE DWELLING, TENEMENT HOUSE  and APARTMENT
HOUSE  shall be considered synonymous.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of the premises, including the holder of title
thereto, a purchaser under land contract or vendee, a mortgage or receiver, a
lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof, or an agent or any other person,
firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in control of the premises.
   RENT. Includes the words “offer to rent”, “lease” or “offer to lease”.
   ROOMER. A person other than a member of the family of a resident owner or of
the family of a tenant, who rents one or more rooms, not constituting a
complete dwelling unit, as a habitation in a dwelling or apartment house from
such owner or tenant, except that no person occupying a dwelling unit on the
third floor of a single- or two-family dwelling structure shall be classed as a
ROOMER unless the applicable condition or conditions prescribed and established
in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by the owner.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any building or part of any building, other than a hotel
occupied in such a manner that certain rooms are leased or rented to a roomer
or roomers, as herein defined, by an owner or tenant, including the third floor
of single- and two-family dwelling structures when the applicable condition or
conditions as prescribed by and established in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by the owner, which building or part thereof is
occupied under the following additional conditions.
      (1)   A building in which rooms are rented to one or more roomers by an
owner or tenant who does not reside in the building, including the third floor
of single- and two-family dwelling structures when the applicable condition or
conditions are prescribed by and established in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by an owner or tenant.
      (2)   A single-family dwelling in which rooms are rented, including the
third floor to three or more roomers when the applicable condition or
conditions as prescribed by and established in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by a resident owner or tenant.
      (3)   A building containing more than one dwelling unit, including the
third floor of single- and two-family dwelling structures in which rooms are
rented to two or more roomers by an owner or tenant occupying one of such
dwelling units, when the applicable condition or conditions as prescribed and
established in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by an owner or tenant.
      (4)   A building including the third floor of single- and two-family
dwelling structure in which a room or rooms are rented to be occupied by one or
more roomers who are under 12 years of age or are infirm, or aged, but provided
the applicable condition or conditions as prescribed by and established in §
1355.05 are met and fulfilled by an owner or tenant.
   TENANT. The lessee or renter of a building or a portion of a building.
(Ord. 7471, passed 3-17-1981; Ord. 7678, passed 11-1-1983)
§ 1355.02  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No owner or tenant shall operate a rooming house, foster home or hotel
unless and until the owner or tenant has applied for and secured the approval
of the Board of Zoning Appeals and has complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter and all other ordinances and rules and regulations of the city,
and with all laws, rules and regulations of the state.
   (b)   No owner or tenant shall rent to a total number of roomers or persons
in a building, or any part thereof in excess of or contrary to any regulations
or requirements of this chapter, or to any limitation or restriction that has
been fixed or determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)
§ 1355.03  REQUIRED FACILITIES; CELLAR ROOMS; INGRESS AND EGRESS; COOKING
PROHIBITED; HOUSING CODE COMPLIANCE.
   No owner or tenant shall rent to roomers or operate a rooming house, foster
home or hotel unless the premises and rooms so used shall comply with the
following requirements.
   (a)   The premises must be equipped with one complete bathroom with toilet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower facilities for each six persons or fraction
thereof living in the premises, including all roomers, employees and members of
families of the owner or tenant.
   (b)   No room located in a cellar shall be used for roomers or for rooming
houses, foster homes or hotel purposes.
   (c)   The means of egress to the outside of the premises from any room shall
meet with the approval of the Building Inspector and shall at all times be kept
clear of obstructions. Any door which must be used in connection with such
means of egress shall be provided with a lock which can be opened from the
inside without the use of a key.
   (d)   No hot plates or other facilities for cooking are permitted in any
rooms rented to a roomer except with the specific approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (e)   The building shall be operated and maintained in complete compliance
with all provisions of the Housing Code of the city.
   (f)   No means of ingress to a bathroom shall be through a room rented to a
roomer. No means of egress to a room rented to a roomer shall be through any
room rented to any other roomer.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963; Ord. 5801, passed 2-21-1967)
§ 1355.04  RENTING TO MINORS UNDER 12 OR THE AGED.
   (a)   No owner or tenant shall rent any premises to be occupied by a roomer
who is under 12 years of age or is infirm or aged, except with the approval of
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (b)   Under no condition shall the Board approve a person as a roomer who in
an emergency is unable to evacuate the building easily and readily without help
and without impeding the progress of others.
   (c)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not permit any child under 12 years
of age to occupy any part of the third floor of any single- or two-family
dwelling structure; nor shall the Board permit any child under 12 years of age
to occupy any other qualifying dwelling structure as a roomer unless such child
is a member of the family of the owner or lessee, who with the remainder of his
or her family, is domiciled on another floor or in another portion of the
dwelling.
(Ord. 7471, passed 3-17-1981)
§ 1355.05  LICENSE REQUIRED; EXPIRATION.
   (a)   No owner or tenant shall operate any rooming house, foster home or
hotel within the city without having first applied for and obtained from the
Mayor a license entitling him or her to do so, which license shall be valid
until December 31 of the year in which it is granted.
   (b)   The Mayor shall prescribe the form of application and licenses shall
be issued subject to all other provisions of the ordinances of the city,
conditions prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals and the following.
      (1)   A separate rooming house license shall be required for each
dwelling unit to be operated as a rooming house and no rooming house shall be
operated or licensed unless a part of or contained within a dwelling unit, as
dwelling unit is defined in §
1355.01.
      (2)   The third floor of single- and two-family dwelling structures shall
not qualify for “roomers” and no temporary rooming house license shall be
issued to owners of any single- and two-family dwelling structures, except on
the following conditions:
         A.   The owner of the dwelling unit shall have had a valid temporary
rooming house license on March 17, 1981, the effective date of Ordinance No.
7471 which prohibits and eliminates the issuance of temporary rooming house
licenses for third floor roomer occupancy in single- and in two-family dwelling
structures;
         B.   The license must not have been suspended, revoked, allowed to
expire, or terminated; nor forfeited by the sale of the real property by the
licensee, since the temporary rooming house license is neither assignable, nor
transferable under §
1355.05(b)(5);
         C.   Further, the temporary rooming house license must not have been
nor shall it be abandoned, or allowed to expire unless such abandonment was
directly the fault of the city when it enacted into law Ordinance No. 7471,
passed March 17, 1981 prohibiting and eliminating “roomer” occupancies on third
floors in single- and in two-family dwelling structures;
         D.   Provided a variance has been granted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to Chapter 1107 of the Planning and Zoning Code when the
criteria for the grant of a variance has been met by an owner as such criteria
is prescribed in §
1107.04;
         E.   Provided, all of the legal ordinance requirements, conditions,
building and fire codes, safety standards and stipulations of law as enacted
now or hereafter prescribed by Council and the requirements herein and under
this chapter are met by the owner, including all other applicable ordinances,
regulations and state statutes; and
         F.   Licenses shall not be assignable, or transferable and any changes
made by the applicant or owner in the conditions or terms of operation from
those originally contained in the application and license issued shall act to
terminate such license issued forthwith. Whoever accepts or is issued any
license hereunder agrees to be bound by the conditions herein and upon either
the death of the owner to whom the temporary rooming house license is issued,
or upon the sale of the dwelling structure for which a temporary rooming house
license was issued, such license automatically terminates and is invalid.
      (3)   No rooming house license shall be issued except to the nominal head
of the dwelling unit for which a rooming house license is applied and with the
express written consent of the owner of the premises in which such dwelling
unit is situated.
      (4)   The third floor of a single- or two-family dwelling containing an
upstairs and a downstairs dwelling unit shall be considered as a part of the
upstairs or second floor dwelling unit for the purposes of issuing licenses
pursuant to this section, when the conditions as set forth in divisions (b)
(2)A. to (b)(2)F. above are met by an owner.
      (5)   Notwithstanding division (b)(2) above, prohibiting roomer occupancy
on third floors in single- and two-family dwelling structures, it is the intent
of this section to permit third floor roomer occupancies under a temporary
rooming house license where the applicable conditions, as prescribed in
divisions (b)(2)A. to (b)(2)F. above are met; and where any qualifying owner of
a single- or two-family dwelling structure had a valid current temporary
rooming house license issued to him or her permitting third floor roomer
occupancy in such structure on March 17, 1981, effective date of passage of
Ord. 7471, eliminating all such roomer occupancy in single- and two-family
dwelling structures in the city.
      (6)   A temporary rooming house license for premises which have been
obtained by an owner or tenant for a calendar year or fraction thereof becomes
null and void when interest in that building changes during such calendar year,
and notwithstanding §
1355.06(c), no new owner or tenant shall be issued any temporary rooming house
license except under the conditions prescribed in divisions (b)(2)A. to (b)
(2)F. above where applicable. Except for hotels, any license issued pursuant to
this section may be granted by the Mayor only with the approval and consent of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and shall be a temporary license for the period of
one calendar year or part thereof. Such issuance of a temporary license shall
not be construed as permanently authorizing an increase in the number of
dwelling units for which the building was originally designed or to which it
has been legally converted; nor be construed as changing or modifying the
zoning applicable to such building; nor be construed as obligating the city in
any way whatsoever to issue a temporary rooming house license for such building
in any succeeding year. No license issued hereunder shall be self-perpetuating
from year to year.
      (7)   The renewal of any temporary rooming house license to any
qualifying owner in addition to the owner meeting the relevant condition or
conditions established in divisions (b)(2)A. to (b)(2)F. above shall also
depend upon the property being maintained by the owner in compliance with all
city ordinances and state laws applicable thereto; compliance with all of the
provisions of this chapter; and reissuance will also depend upon the subject
real property passing an annual inspection conducted by the city under its
annual and periodic city-wide code enforcement program.
(Ord. 7678, passed 11-1-1983)
§ 1355.06  LICENSE FEES; ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (a)   Fees. The fees for such license shall be as follows, and shall
accompany the application.
      (1)   For all dwellings or buildings other than a foster home or a hotel
as herein defined, the fee shall be $30 multiplied by the maximum number of
roomers and resident or transient guests permitted to be accommodated at one
time in the dwelling or building to be licensed. However, where a dwelling or
building not originally designed for such purpose is occupied as a dormitory
for student nurses, interns, resident physicians or other operating personnel
of a hospital, the fee shall be $10 multiplied by the maximum number of such
persons permitted to be accommodated at one time in the dwelling or building to
be so licensed.
      (2)   For hotels, the fee shall be $5 multiplied by the number of rooms
for resident or transient guests and operating personnel. For the purpose of
this section, the word ROOM may include more than one room if occupied or
rented as a single unit.
      (3)   For foster homes, the fee shall be $50 for each foster home.
      (4)   The fee for a license, other than for a foster home, issued after
July 1 of any year shall be 50% of the regular fee herein prescribed.
   (b)   Issuance and term. Except for hotels, any license issued pursuant to
this chapter may be granted by the Mayor only with the approval and consent of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and shall be a temporary license for the period of
one calendar year or part thereof. Such issuance of a temporary license shall
not be construed as permanently authorizing an increase in the number of
dwelling units for which the building was originally designed or to which it
has been legally converted; nor be construed as changing or modifying the
zoning applicable to such building; nor be construed as obligating the city in
any way whatsoever to issue a temporary rooming house license for such building
in any succeeding year.
   (c)   Temporary rooming house license. A temporary rooming house license,
for premises which have been obtained by an owner or tenant for a calendar year
or fraction thereof becomes null and void when interest in that building
changes during such calendar year. Subject to the approval or modification of
the Board of Zoning Appeals, a new license may be issued to the new owner or
tenant for the balance of such calendar year upon payment of 50% of the regular
fee herein prescribed for the full calendar year.
(Ord. 6484, passed 5-15-1973; Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1355.07  AGENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When the owner of a rooming house, foster home or hotel does not live on the
premises, he or she shall designate, on his or her application for a license,
the name of a person residing on the premises as his or her agent, and such
agent shall also sign the license application. Such person shall be authorized
and shall be responsible for carrying out the obligations of the owner in the
operation of the premises. If the agent discontinues as such agent, the owner
shall immediately appoint a new agent and shall notify the Building Inspector
of such appointment immediately in writing, which notice shall also bear the
signature of the new agent.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)
§ 1355.08  STANDARD HOTEL REGISTER.
   (a)   Any tenant or owner or agent thereof conducting a rooming house for
transient guests or a hotel in the city shall at all times, keep and maintain
therein a standard hotel register, in which shall be inscribed with ink or
indelible pencil the name and home address of each and every guest or person
renting or occupying a room or rooms therein. Such register shall be signed by
the person renting or occupying a room or rooms therein, and the tenant or
owner or agent thereof of such rooming house or hotel shall thereupon write
opposite such name or names so registered the number of each room assigned to
and occupied by each guest, together with the time when such room is rented.
   (b)   The tenant or owner or agent thereof accepting such registration shall
also confirm the identity of the registrant by examining identification and
shall record the Social Security number, driver’s license number, automobile
and license registration number and name of identification produced to confirm
such identity and information in a separate log to be kept at all times open
only to the inspection of any executive or police officer of the city.
   (c)   Until all of the aforesaid entries shall have been made in such
register or log, no guest shall be permitted by the tenant or owner or agent
thereof to occupy privately any room in such hotel or house. When the occupant
or occupants of each room so rented shall quit and surrender the same, it shall
be the further duty of the tenant or owner or agent thereof of such rooming
house or hotel to enter the time thereof in such register opposite the name of
such occupant or occupants. Such register shall be kept at all times open to
the inspection of any guest of such house or hotel wherein such register is
kept and of any executive or police officer of the city.
(Ord. 7060, passed 9-6-1977)
§ 1355.09  FALSE SIGNATURE.
   No person shall write, or cause to be written, or knowingly permit to be
written in any register in any rooming house for transient guests, or in any
hotel, any other name or home address than the true name and home address of
the person registering therein. (Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
1355.99
§ 1355.10  ASSIGNMENT OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   No owner of a rooming house, foster home or hotel in the city shall rent or
assign to persons of the opposite sex any room in such rooming house or hotel
unless such persons shall be husband and wife, or parent and minor child, nor
if such owner shall have reasonable cause to believe such persons are not
husband and wife, or parent and minor child.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
1355.99
§ 1355.11  UNLAWFUL OCCUPANCY BY PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   No persons of opposite sex, except husband and wife, or parent and minor
child, shall occupy jointly and privately any room in any rooming house, foster
home or hotel in the city.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
1355.99
§ 1355.12  RENTING ROOM MORE THAN ONCE PER NIGHT.
   No owner or tenant shall rent any room in any rooming house or hotel in the
city more than once between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the next
day.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
1355.99
§ 1355.13  LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Mayor shall have the power to suspend or revoke any license granted
under the provisions of this chapter if any of the following conditions exist:
   (a)   If any false statement shall have been made by the licensee in
connection with the application for such license or in the operation pursuant
to such license;
   (b)   If the licensee shall fail or refuse to comply with any provision of
this chapter and with all other city ordinances and state laws applicable
thereto;
   (c)   If the building or premises for which such license has been issued
does not comply with all provisions of this chapter and of all other city
ordinances and state laws applicable thereto;
   (d)   If the licensee shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude;
   (e)   If the licensee shall have engaged in unfair, unjust, inequitable or
fraudulent practices; and/or
   (f)   If the licensee shall have been determined by the Mayor to be a person
unfit, by reason of immoral conduct, to operate such licensed premises.
(Ord. 5586, passed 11-17-1964)
§ 1355.14  INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, any officer or
inspector of the city shall have authority to enter any premises for the
purpose of making an inspection thereof. Any owner, agent or occupant thereof
who refuses to permit such officer or inspector to enter such premises for the
purpose of such inspection, or who hinders him or her in such inspection, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)  Penalty, see §
1355.99
§ 1355.15  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner, as defined in this chapter, shall be responsible for compliance
with all provisions of this chapter except where the responsibility therefor is
specifically placed elsewhere.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)
§ 1355.16  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals for this chapter.
The Board of Zoning Appeals may adopt from time to time such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary to put into effect the provisions of this
chapter. Where practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships will result from
the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, the Board shall have the power to grant variances in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter and to secure the general welfare
and substantial justice in the promotion of the public health, comfort,
convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 5638, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1355.17  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Building Inspector
or other city official made in the enforcement of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals from such decision within ten
days from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to him or her,
and to appear before the Board at a time and place fixed by such Board. Such
appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with the Board
within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal.
The Board shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of such Building Inspector or other city official.
   (b)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board shall also
have the right to appeal to Council from such decision within ten days from the
date notice of such decision was given or mailed to the appellant, and to
appear before Council at a time and place fixed by Council. Such appeal must be
in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with Council within the time
prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. Council shall have
the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 5638, passed 6-1-1965)
§ 1355.18  CONFLICT AND VALIDITY.
   (a)   If the provisions of this chapter and any amendments thereto conflict
with the provisions of the Housing Code or any amendments thereto, the
provisions of such Housing Code, as amended, shall prevail.
   (b)   Sections and divisions of this chapter and the several parts and
provisions thereof are hereby declared to be independent sections, divisions,
parts and provisions and the holding of any such section, division, part or
provision thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause
shall not separate or render invalid any other section, division, part or
provision thereof.
(Ord. 5801, passed 2-21-1967)
§ 1355.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
Each day such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 5513, passed 11-6-1963)
TITLE 9:  BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
      Chapter
         
1369   Definitions
         
1371   Purpose; Scope
         
1373   Enforcement; Unsafe Buildings
         
1375   Certificate of Business Occupancy
         
1377   Specific Maintenance Requirements; Penalty
CHAPTER 1369: DEFINITIONS
Section
1369.01   Definitions applicable
1369.02   Approved
1369.03   Board
1369.04   Basement
1369.05   Building
1369.06   Business
1369.07   Building Inspector
1369.08   Cellar
1369.09   Code
1369.10   Occupant
1369.11   Operator
1369.12   Owner
1369.13   Person
1369.14   Premises
1369.15   Secondary or appurtenant structure
1369.16   Structure
1369.17   Supply or supplied
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe building defined, see §
1373.08
§ 1369.01  DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE.
   Certain words and phrases as used in this Building Maintenance Code are
defined, for purposes of this Building Maintenance Code, as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.02  APPROVED.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector or his or her authorized agent
pursuant to this Building Maintenance Code, or approved by any other person or
board designated by city ordinances to give approval to the matter in question.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.03  BOARD.
   BOARD. The Board of Building Code Appeals of the city, as created and
existing under the provisions of Chapter 1311 of the Building Code.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.04  BASEMENT.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building partly or entirely underground whose
ceiling or under part of the floor above is four feet or less above the average
finished ground elevation. The AVERAGE FINISHED GROUND ELEVATION  is the mean
elevation of the finished grade around all of the exterior of the building.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.05  BUILDING.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by or suspended from columns
or walls which may serve as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind. The term BUILDING does not include any
vehicle, trailer, whether with or without wheels, nor any moveable device, such
as furniture, machinery or equipment.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.06  BUSINESS.
   BUSINESS. All uses or occupancies other than residential, including, and not
limited to, retail establishments, churches, schools, factories, places of
assembly and public buildings.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.07  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The Chief Enforcement Officer and as used in the
Building Maintenance Code shall be construed as though followed by the words
“or his or her authorized agent or representative”.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.08  CELLAR.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building wholly below, or with less than half of
its ceiling height above the average finished grade of the ground adjoining the
building.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.09  CODE.
   CODE. This Building Maintenance Code as contained in Title Nine, Part 13,
Chapters
1369 et seq., of this Building Code.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.10  OCCUPANT.
   OCCUPANT. The person who occupies a building, structure or any portion
thereof. The words tenant and occupant shall be considered synonymous.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.11  OPERATOR.
   OPERATOR. The person who has charge, care or control of a business
structure.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.12  OWNER.
   OWNER. The owner of the premises, or one of the owners of the premises if
owned by more than one person, including the holder of title thereto subject to
contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee or receiver in
possession, a lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof, or an agent or any
other person, firm, corporation or fiduciary directly in control of the
premises.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.13  PERSON.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization or association of persons of any kind.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.14  PREMISES.
   PREMISES. A lot, parcel or plot of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.15  SECONDARY OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   SECONDARY OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURE . A structure, the use of which is
incidental or accessory to that of the main building and which is attached to
the main building or located on the same premises with it, including retaining
walls, fences and exterior walks and steps.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.16  STRUCTURE.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
fixed location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location
on the ground and includes, but is not limited to, advertising signs, fences,
billboards, backstops for tennis courts, or recreation activities.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1369.17  SUPPLY OR SUPPLIED.
   SUPPLY or SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished, provided by or under the control
of the owner or operator.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
CHAPTER 1371:  PURPOSE; SCOPE
Section
1371.01   Title
1371.02   Purpose
1371.03   General scope
1371.04   Existing buildings; occupancy and leasing restrictions
1371.05   Conflict of law
§ 1371.01  TITLE.
   The provisions of this Title Nine, Chapters 1369 et seq., shall be known and
may be cited and referred to as “The Building Maintenance Code of the City of
East Cleveland” or “Building Maintenance Code”.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1371.02  PURPOSE.
   Within the scope of this Building Maintenance Code, as herein defined, the
purpose of this Building Maintenance Code is to establish minimum standards
necessary to maintain all structures, other than dwelling structures, safe,
sanitary, free from fire and health hazards and beneficial to the public
welfare; to establish minimum standards governing the maintenance of
structures, other than dwelling structures, in such condition as will not
constitute a blighting or deteriorating influence on the neighborhood and the
community; to fix responsibilities for owners and occupants of structures with
respect to sanitation, repair and maintenance; to authorize the vacation or
condemnation of unsafe or unfit structures; to provide for the adoption of
rules and to fix penalties for violations thereof.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1371.03  GENERAL SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Building Maintenance Code shall be supplementary to
all other provisions of city ordinances relating to the construction, use and
maintenance of business buildings and structures and shall apply to all
buildings or portions thereof which are not used or designed or intended to be
used for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1371.04  EXISTING BUILDINGS; OCCUPANCY AND LEASING RESTRICTIONS.
   No owner, operator or agent shall occupy, rent or lease, or offer for rental
or lease any business structure or any parts thereof which do not comply with
the provisions of this Building Maintenance Code which includes a certificate
of occupancy.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1371.05  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   In the event of conflict between any provisions of this Building Maintenance
Code, including any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to its provisions
and any provisions of other city ordinances, including any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to such ordinances, the more restrictive provision
or provisions shall prevail.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
CHAPTER 1373:  ENFORCEMENT; UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
1373.01   Inspections authorized
1373.02   Right of entry; search warrant
1373.03   Notice of violation; legal service; no notice for same prior
violation
1373.04   Remedies for noncompliance with notice
1373.05   Cases of emergency; orders of immediate compliance
1373.06   Placards ordering vacation of premises
1373.07   Expenses and costs
1373.08   Unsafe buildings
1373.09   Rules and regulations by Building Inspector
1373.10   Owner’s responsibility
1373.11   Powers and duties of the Board of Building Code Appeals
1373.12   Appeal procedure
1373.13   Penalty does not preclude other remedial action
Cross-reference:
   Board of Building Code Appeals, see
Ch. 1311
   Repair and removal of unsafe structures, see Ohio R.C. 715.26 et seq.
   Restriction on leasing, see §
1377.01
§ 1373.01  INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Building Inspector or his or her authorized agent is authorized to make
or cause to be made inspections of all structures or premises included in the
scope of this Building Maintenance Code and all secondary or appurtenant
structures to determine whether such structures or premises conform to the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.02  RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH WARRANT.
   (a)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his
or her authorized agent may enter at all reasonable times, or at such other
times as may be necessary in an emergency, any building, structure or premises
in the city included in the scope of this Building Maintenance Code to perform
any duty imposed upon them by this code.
   (b)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his
or her authorized agent shall be permitted by the owner, lessee, manager or
operator of any building or premises to enter and inspect any building,
structure or premises in the city included in the scope of this Building
Maintenance Code at the time and for the purposes stated in this section.
   (c)   Except in emergency situations, if the owner, agent or administrator
for the owner of any premises or building refuses entrance to the Building
Inspector or his or her authorized agent for the purposes of inspecting, no
such entrance or inspection shall be made unless a search warrant is properly
obtained from a judge of a court of competent jurisdiction. No penalty under
the penalty provisions of this code shall apply against any owner, agent or
administrator who refuses such entrance until such search warrant is obtained.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975; Ord. 7132, passed 3-21-1978)
§ 1373.03  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; LEGAL SERVICE; NO NOTICE FOR SAME PRIOR
VIOLATION.
   (a)   Whenever the Building Inspector or his or her authorized agent finds
any building, structure or premises, or any part thereof, to be in violation of
the provisions of this Building Maintenance Code, he or she or his or her agent
shall give or cause to be given or mailed to the owner, agent, occupant or
operator of such structure or premises a written notice stating the violation
therein. Such notice shall order the owner, agent, occupant or operator, within
a stated reasonable time to repair, improve or demolish the structure or
premises concerned. Such delivery or mailing shall be deemed legal service of
notice.
   (b)   If the person to whom a notice of violation is addressed cannot be
found within the county after a reasonable and diligent search, then notice
shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such person and a
copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the structure or
premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed legal
service of notice.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the requirements of notice provided herein, when, in
the opinion of the Building Inspector, the condition of a structure or
premises, or part thereof, has been sent to the owner, agent, occupant or
operator for the same or a similar violation then no such notice of violation
need be given to the owner, agent, occupant or operator of such building.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.04  REMEDIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE.
   (a)   Whenever the owner, agent, occupant or operator of a structure or
premises, or part thereof, fails, neglects or refuses to comply with any notice
of the Building Inspector, he or she or his or her authorized agent shall issue
a notice to such owner, agent, occupant or operator ordering the structure or
premises, or part thereof to be vacated, repaired or demolished within such
time as shall be stated in the notice, but which shall be not less than ten
days, except in cases of emergency; or he or she may advise the Director of Law
of the circumstances and request the Director to institute an appropriate
action at law to compel compliance, or both. Such notice shall be delivered,
mailed or posted in the same manner as provided above.
   (b)   Whenever the owner, agent, operator or occupant of a structure or
premises fails, neglects or refuses to comply with a notice issued by the
Building Inspector or City Engineer to vacate, repair or demolish any building
or structure, the Building Inspector or City Engineer may enforce the orders of
such notice and cause the structure or premises, or part thereof to be vacated,
repaired or demolished in accordance with the terms of such notice.
   (c)   Whenever the owner, agent or operator of a structure, or part thereof,
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with a notice to vacate, repair or
demolish such structure, or a part thereof, or a secondary or appurtenant
structure is determined by the Building Inspector to constitute a public
nuisance in that it is dangerous or injurious to the public health, safety or
welfare, he or she may request the Director of Law to institute legal
proceedings or to take such other action as may be necessary to abate the
nuisance. The Building Inspector shall further give notice informing the owner,
agent, occupant or operator of such determination and give notice informing the
owner, agent, occupant or operator of such determination and action. Such
notice shall be given in the same manner provided for other notices in §
1373.03.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.05  CASES OF EMERGENCY; ORDERS OF IMMEDIATE COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the conditions of a
structure or premises or part thereof constitutes an immediate hazard to human
life or health, he or she shall declare a case of emergency and shall order
immediate corrective action or vacation of the structure or premises, or part
thereof. Such notice shall be served in the manner provided in §
1373.03 but shall require immediate compliance.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.06  PLACARDS ORDERING VACATION OF PREMISES.
   Whenever the Building Inspector orders a structure or premises or part
thereof to be vacated, repaired or demolished, he or she shall cause to be
posted at each entrance to such structure or premises, or part thereof, a
placard ordering such vacation, repair or demolition. No person shall deface or
remove such placard until the repairs or demolition are completed, without
written permission of the Building Inspector. No person shall enter or use any
structure or premises so placarded except for the purpose of making the
required repairs or demolishing the structure or premises.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)  Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 1373.07  EXPENSES AND COSTS.
   Any expenses and costs incurred under the provisions of this Building
Maintenance Code for the demolition, removal, boarding, grass and/or weed-
cutting, repair or alteration of any building, structure or premises shall be
paid by the owner of the building, structure or premises. If such building
maintenance is not performed by the owner of the building, structure or
premises within ten days after written notice from the city to do so, said
owner will be ticketed and charged $20 upon issuance of said ticket to be paid
to the Finance Department. Upon issuance of such ticket, the city shall proceed
to perform the task for which the ticket was issued and the cost for performing
such work shall be recovered by the city when the Building Inspector certifies
such amount to the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall make
written return to the County Auditor of the action under this Building
Maintenance Code Ticket Program with a statement of the charges for the
services performed. The amount for the expenses and costs and a proper
description of the premises for the purpose of making same a lien upon such
lands shall be provided and the same shall be collected as other taxes in the
manner provided by law and returned to the city. Such expenses and costs may
also be recovered by any other applicable action at law. In the case of repeat
offenders, all costs of ticketing and expenses incurred by the city shall be
doubled at each such occurrence.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1373.08  UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or structures which are unsafe, unsanitary, or not provided
with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolesence or abandonment, are severally in contemplation of this section,
unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared illegal and
shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance
with the following procedure.
   (a)   Whenever the Building Inspector finds any building or structure or
portion thereof to be unsafe, as defined above, he or she shall, in accordance
with established procedure for legal notice, give the owner, agent or person in
control of such building or structure written notice stating the defects
thereof. This notice shall require the owner within a stated time either to
complete specified repairs or improvements, or to demolish and remove the
building or structure or portion thereof.
   (b)   If necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure
or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the
specified repairs and improvements are completed, inspected and approved by the
Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such building a placard stating: “NO TRESPASSING - BUILDING UNSAFE
FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY”. Such notice shall remain posted until the required
repairs are made or demolition is completed. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation or their agents, or other servants, to remove such
notice without written permission of the Building Inspector, or for any person
to enter the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or
of demolishing same.
   (c)   The owner, agent or person in control shall have the right, except in
cases of emergency, to appeal from the decision of the Building Inspector, as
provided hereinafter, and to appear before the Board of Building Code Appeals
at a specified time and place to show cause why he or she should not comply
with the notice.
   (d)   In case the owner, agent or person in control cannot be found within
the stated time limit, or, if such owner, agent or person in control fails,
neglects or refuses to comply with the notice to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove the building or structure or portion thereof, the Building
Inspector, after having ascertained the cost, shall cause the building or
structure or portion thereof, to be demolished, secured or required to remain
vacant.
   (e)   The decision of the Building Inspector shall be final in cases of
emergency which, in his or her opinion, involve imminent danger to human life
or health. He or she shall promptly cause such building or structure, or
portion thereof, to be made safe or cause its removal. For this purpose, he or
she may at once enter such structure or land on which it stands, or abutting
land or structures with such assistance and at such cost as he or she may deem
necessary. He or she may order the vacation of adjacent structures and may
require the protection of the public by an appropriate fence or such other
means as may be necessary, and for this purpose may close a public or private
right-of-way.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.09  RULES AND REGULATIONS BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (a)   The Building Inspector is authorized to adopt such written rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the proper interpretation and enforcement
of this Building Maintenance Code. Such rules and regulations shall not
conflict with or waive any provisions of this Building Maintenance Code or any
other city ordinance. Such rules and regulations shall be submitted to the
Board of Building Code Appeals for approval and no such rules or regulations
shall be adopted without such approval.
   (b)   Such rules and regulations, upon approval of the Board of Building
Code Appeals, shall be on file with the Building Inspector for public
examination, and a copy of such rules and regulations shall be posted on the
bulletin board of the main entrance of the City Hall for at least five days
after adoption. Such rules and regulations shall have the force and effect of
this Building Maintenance Code and shall continue in effect until revoked by
the Building Inspector with the approval of the Board or by action of Council.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.10  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner shall be responsible for compliance with all provisions of this
chapter except where the responsibility therefor is specifically placed
elsewhere. (Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.11  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF BUILDING CODE APPEALS.
   The Board of Building Code Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals for this
chapter. The Board of Building Code Appeals may adopt from time to time such
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to put into effect the
provisions of this chapter. Where practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships will result from the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, the Board shall have the power to grant variances
in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter and to secure
the general welfare and substantial justice in the promotion of the public
health, comfort, convenience, morals, safety and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.12  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of any city official made
in the enforcement of any ordinance for which the Board of Building Code
Appeals is designated as the Board of Appeals shall have the right to appeal to
the Board of Building Code Appeals from such decision within ten days from the
date notice of such decision was given or mailed to him or her, and to appear
before the Board at a time and place fixed by the Board. Such appeal must be in
writing. Failure to file a written appeal with the Board within the time
prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of appeal. The Board shall
have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any decision of such city
official.
   (b)   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Board of Building
Code Appeals shall also have the right to appeal to Council from such decision
within ten days from the date notice of such decision was given or mailed to
the appellant, and to appear before Council at a time and place fixed by
Council. Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with
Council within the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right of
appeal. Council shall have the power to approve, amend, modify or reverse any
decision of the Board.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1373.13  PENALTY DOES NOT PRECLUDE OTHER REMEDIAL ACTION.
   The imposition of any penalty, as provided for in this Building Maintenance
Code, shall not preclude the Director of Law from instituting an appropriate
action or proceeding in a court of proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful
repair or maintenance, to restrain, correct or abate a violation, to prevent
the occupancy of a building, structure or premises, to require compliance with
the provisions of this Building Maintenance Code or other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations, or the orders or determinations of the
Building Inspector or the Board of Building Code Appeals.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
CHAPTER 1375:  CERTIFICATE OF BUSINESS OCCUPANCY
Section
1375.01   Certificate of business occupancy required
1375.02   Annual application for certificate; floor loads
1375.03   Failure to apply for certificate; renewals
1375.04   Posting of certificate
1375.05   Posting floor loads
1375.06   Fees; changes in business occupancy
1375.07   Plan requirements; floor load signs; change of occupancy
1375.08   Late fees
Cross-reference:
   General building fees, see
Ch. 1310
§ 1375.01  CERTIFICATE OF BUSINESS OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   On and after January 1, 1976, no person shall occupy any structure used or
designed, or intended to be used as a commercial, institutional and the like,
building, structure or premises or any part thereof, unless such person holds a
certificate of business occupancy issued by the Mayor for such structure, which
certificate has not expired, been revoked or otherwise become null and void.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.02  ANNUAL APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; FLOOR LOADS.
   (a)   An application for a certificate of business occupancy required by the
provisions of this Building Maintenance Code shall be made annually by
supplying the information and data to determine compliance with applicable
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations for the existing use or occupancy or
the intended use or occupancy on forms supplied by the Mayor.
   (b)   The Mayor may require the submission of an affidavit stating such
information, and he or she may cause a general inspection of the structure or
premises to be made.
   (c)   (1)   No existing or new building shall be occupied for any purpose
which will cause the floors thereof to be loaded beyond their safe capacity.
The Building Inspector may permit occupancy of a building for mercantile,
commercial or industrial purposes, by a specific business, when he or she is
satisfied that such capacity will not thereby be exceeded.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent, proprietor or
occupant of “business buildings”, “industrial buildings”, “storage buildings”,
“special occupancy buildings”, “mixed occupancy buildings”, and “buildings of
uncertain classification” as defined by the state’s Basic Building Code, or any
occupancy where excessive floor loading is likely to occur, to employ an
architect or engineer registered in the state computing the safe load capacity.
All such computations shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the architect
or engineer stating the safe allowable floor load in each floor in pounds per
square foot uniformly distributed, as well as the total permissible load for
the entire floor, and any additional information as required by the Building
Inspector on the forms that are to be submitted prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy; it shall thereupon be filed as a permanent record by
the Building Inspector in the Division of Building and Engineering records.
   (d)   (1)   If it is found that a building or other structure is in
compliance with the provisions of this Building Maintenance Code, and all other
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations applicable thereto, the Mayor shall
issue a certificate of business occupancy for such building or structure, each
suite or store to have separate certificates, which shall contain the following
information:
         A.   The street address or other identifying characteristics of the
building or other structure.
         B.   The names and addresses of the owner and the occupants of the
building or structure.
         C.   The exact nature and extent of the use or occupancy authorized
and the net square footage of the authorized area. Structure loadings shall be
included.
         D.   The period for which such certificate of business occupancy is
effective.
         E.   The method of disposal of solid wastes generated by and at the
establishment certified.
      (2)   Such certificate shall not be valid beyond December 31 of the
calendar year for which the certificate is issued.
   (e)   The Mayor shall have the power to revoke a certificate of business
occupancy if any false statement is made by the applicant in connection with
the issuance of such certificate, or for noncompliance of a structure or its
use with the requirements of this Building Maintenance Code, or if the owner,
agent or person in charge of a structure refuses to comply with any applicable
provision of this Building Maintenance Code.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.03  FAILURE TO APPLY FOR CERTIFICATE; RENEWALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
1375.05, the proposed occupant of a structure requiring a certificate of
business occupancy shall apply for such certificate of business occupancy for
the calendar year 1976 by December 1, 1975, upon forms provided by the Mayor,
if such structure is proposed to be occupied or will be available for occupancy
by January 1, 1976. The proposed occupant of a structure to be used for
business purposes, which will be completed and available for occupancy
subsequent to January 1, 1976 and which requires a certificate of business
occupancy under the terms of this Building Maintenance Code, shall apply for
such certificate as soon as practicable, but in no event shall any unit of the
structure be occupied in whole or in part until such certificate has been
issued.
   (b)   For each calendar year after 1976, the person applying for a required
certificate of business occupancy for any unit used for business purposes shall
apply for such certificate on or before December 1 of the year preceding the
period for which the certificate is issued.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.04  POSTING OF CERTIFICATE.
   Except as provided for in §
1375.06, the occupant of every structure included in the scope of this Building
Maintenance Code shall, in each store or suite, cause a certificate of business
occupancy to be posted conspicuously at all times in such structure. Such
certificate of business occupancy shall be provided with a protective covering
and shall be securely affixed to the wall.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.05  POSTING FLOOR LOADS.
   In every building or part of a building used for business storage,
industrial or hazardous purposes, the safe floor loads, as approved by the
Building Inspector, shall be marked on plates of approved design with all the
information required by the Building Inspector specified on the certificate of
occupancy forms. Such plates shall be supplied and securely affixed by the
owner of the building in a conspicuous place in each story to which they
relate. Such plates shall not be removed or defaced, and if lost, removed or
defaced, shall be replaced by the owner of the building within 30 days of
notification by the Building Inspector that the plates are to be replaced.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.06  FEES; CHANGES IN BUSINESS OCCUPANCY.
   (a)   Fee. An application for a certificate of business occupancy shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $100, payable annually for each business
occupant or business tenant in a commercial building. Each store or suite
should have a separate certificate regardless of ownership.
   (b)   Exception for multiple occupancy. For all buildings having more than
20 business occupants or tenants, the owner or his or her agent shall apply for
a certificate of business occupancy accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $10
for each occupant or tenant or family. Such fee shall not exceed $200. The
application must also be accompanied by a list of the tenants for each unit
which identifies each occupant or tenant or family, and states the nature of
the business, use or occupancy of their respective units.
   (c)   Changes; new certificate of business occupancy; fees. If there is a
change in the occupancy of any building or portion thereof, the certificate of
business occupancy issued under the provisions of this Building Maintenance
Code to the former occupant or owner shall become null and void as to the
vacated business unit or units at the time such use is terminated. A new
certificate of business occupancy shall be obtained by the new occupant or
owner before the new business use begins its tenancy or occupancy. Application
for a new certificate of business occupancy for any business use shall be made
before the new business use begins its tenancy or occupancy. A fee of $100
shall be paid upon application for each new certificate. Such new certificate
shall expire on the same date as that of the certificate which it replaces.
   (d)   Change approval. Any change in the nature or extent of the use or
occupancy as specified on the certificate of business occupancy shall render
the certificate null and void upon the happening of such change. No such change
is permissible under this Building Maintenance Code, unless such change has
been approved by the proper city authorities pursuant to this Building
Maintenance Code, and unless a new certificate of business occupancy,
incorporating such change, has been issued. Any such change, without the
approval of the proper city authorities, will subject the owner, occupant,
operator or agent to the penalty provided in §
1377.99
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975; Ord. 26-91, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 1375.07  PLAN REQUIREMENTS; FLOOR LOAD SIGNS; CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Plans for other than residential buildings filed with the Building Inspector
with applications for permits shall show on each drawing the line loads per
square foot of area covered for which the building is designed, and occupancy
permits for buildings hereafter erected shall not be issued until the floor
load signs required by §
1375.05 have been installed. No changes in the occupancy of a building now
existing or hereafter erected shall be made until a revised occupancy permit
has been issued by the Building Inspector certifying that the floors are
suitable for the loads characteristic of the proposed occupancy.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1375.08  LATE FEES.
   Any person or persons, agent or officer of a corporation who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be assessed a late fee of $100 if not received
on or before December 1 of the year proceeding the period for which the
certificate of business is issued under §
1375.03. Any applications postmarked or received after the deadline date will
be subject to this late fee. The Mayor shall have the power to revoke a
certificate of business occupancy if any false statement shall be made by the
applicant in connection with the issuance of such certificate, or for non-
compliance of a structure or its use within the requirements of this Housing
Code, or if the owner, agent or person in charge of a structure refuses to
comply with any provision of this Housing Code required to be observed by him
or her. Any person or persons, agent or officer of a corporation who violates
any provision of this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision
within ten days from the date that the notice of such violation was given or
mailed to him or her; and, have the ability to appear before the Board at a
time and place fixed by the Board under §
1311.03 at a cost of $25. The fee must accompany the written request for an
appeal. In the event the Building and Housing Department pursues court action
to gain compliance, the fee is an additional $100. The penalty for violations
of Chapter 1375 include the possible institution of legal action as well as a
fine of up to $1,000 and imprisonment for not more than six months for each
offense. The penalty for noncompliance also constitutes having a block placed
on the driver’s license of the violator. Each day such violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 05-18, passed 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 1377:  SPECIFIC MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS; PENALTY
Section
1377.01   Maintenance responsibilities
1377.02   General maintenance requirements
1377.03   Maintenance of signs
1377.04   Additional standards
1377.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building construction standards, see
Ch. 1301
   Determination of floor load and posting sign of load limit, see §§
1375.02,
1375.05,
1375.07
§ 1377.01  MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Leasing for business occupancy; restriction. No owner, operator or
agent shall occupy, rent or lease, or offer for rental or lease, any business
structure or any parts thereof which do not comply with the provisions of this
Building Maintenance Code.
   (b)   Owner. The owner of every building or structure or his or her
authorized agent shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition the shared or common areas of the premises, including all
yard areas, walks, driveways and parking lots, including the public sidewalk
area adjoining the building on the public right-of-way.
   (c)   Occupant. The occupant of any building or structure shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean, safe and sanitary condition that part
of the premises which he or she occupies and controls.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1377.02  GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   All structures and all parts thereof, both exterior and interior,
shall be maintained in good repair and shall be capable of performing the
function for which such structure or any part or any feature thereof was
designed or intended to be used.
   (b)   All equipment and facilities appurtenant to a structure shall be
maintained in good and safe working order.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1377.03  MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (a)   All signs, both exterior and interior, shall be maintained in a good
state of repair, and shall pertain only to the identification of the occupant,
merchandise, products or services on the premises.
   (b)   Whenever any structure or part thereof becomes vacant, the owner or
agent shall cause all signs, which are visible from the exterior, and which no
longer apply to the products or services offered on the premises, to be removed
within 30 days and to restore the exterior appearance of the building to match
the existing facade.
   (c)   Signs shall conform in structure, size and type, to all city
ordinances.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
§ 1377.04  ADDITIONAL STANDARDS.
   Additional minimal standards for building maintenance are contained in the
BOCA National Property Maintenance Code adopted under
Chapter 1309.
§ 1377.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Building Maintenance Code, including
Chapters
1369,
1371,
1373,
1375 and
1377 and all other chapters or sections hereinafter supplemented or amended, or
any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, or fails to comply therewith, or
with any written notice or written order issued thereunder, or whoever refuses
to permit entry by the Building Inspector or other city department heads or
their representatives at a reasonable hour, and whoever interferes with,
obstructs or hinders the Building Inspector or his or her authorized agents
while attempting to make such inspection, shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each day such violation occurs
or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6735, passed 6-10-1975)
TITLE 11:  EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE CODE
      Chapter
         
1379   Standards Adopted
         
1381   Contractor Registration
         1382   Annual Registration of Vacant Houses and Buildings and
Registration Fees
CHAPTER 1379:  STANDARDS ADOPTED
Section
1379.01   Title and scope
1379.02   Purposes
1379.03   Findings: declaration of policy
1379.04   Applicability
1379.05   Conflict of laws
1379.06   Weed or tall grass removal
1379.07   Securing unsafe buildings
§ 1379.01  TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Exterior Maintenance Code of
the city.
   (b)   Scope. This chapter is strictly limited to the establishment of
standards for the maintenance of exterior surfaces and exterior functioning
units of all residential, retail, commercial and industrial structures and
buildings within the city, including yard areas immediately contiguous thereto.
No provisions of this chapter shall, in any way, directly or indirectly, be
interpreted to interfere with, or to limit the right of, any owner or resident
to inhabit real property owned or leased by them in such manner and form as
they may determine appropriate, consistent with other applicable provisions of
law. This chapter is directed to visual problems and deteriorated property
values which may occasion incipient blighting conditions within the city.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.02  PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this code is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
by establishing standards governing the maintenance, appearance and exterior
conditions of all premises throughout the city; to fix certain responsibilities
and duties upon owners, residents and managers of the same as to both separate
and correlative responsibilities and duties; to authorize and establish
procedures for the exterior inspection of such premises; to fix penalties for
violations of this code; and to provide for the maintenance, repair, demolition
or vacation of premises unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use. This code
is hereby declared to be remedial and essential for the public interest, and it
is for the purposes as stated herein.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.03  FINDINGS: DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby found and declared that there exists in the city various and
several structures, including yard areas immediately contiguous thereto, which
are, or may become in the future, deteriorated or defective with respect to
exterior maintenance, or further, that such condition, including but not
limited to, exterior of premises, existence of exterior fire hazards and
unsanitary conditions, tall grass/weeds, constitute an immediate threat to the
health, safety, welfare and reasonable comfort of the residents and inhabitants
of the city. It is further found and declared that, by reason of lack of
maintenance and progressive deterioration, the exterior appearance of certain
properties have the further effect of creating blighting conditions and
initiating depressed neighborhood groups, and that if the same are not
curtailed and corrected, the conditions are likely to grow and spread and
necessitate, in time, the expenditure of large amounts of public funds to
correct and eliminate the same, and that by reason of timely regulation and
restrictions as herein contained, the growth of such blight may be prevented
and the immediate neighborhood and property values thereby maintained.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.04  APPLICABILITY .
   Every residential, nonresidential or mixed occupancy building and the land
on which it is situated, used or intended to be used and dwelling, commercial
business or industrial occupancy, such building shall have been constructed,
altered or repaired before or after the enactment of this code, and without
regard to any permits or licenses which shall have been issued for the use or
occupancy of the building or premises for the initial and continued occupancy
and use of all such structures and does not replace or modify standards
otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of the
building.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.05  CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter imposes a higher standard than
that set forth in any other ordinance by the city or law of the state, then the
standard set forth herein shall prevail, but if a provision of this chapter
imposes a lower standard than imposed by any other ordinance of the city or law
of the state, then the higher standard contained in any such other ordinance or
law shall prevail.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.06  WEED OR TALL GRASS REMOVAL.
   (a)   The owner, occupant or person having the charge or management of any
lot or parcel of land situated within the city, whether the same be improved or
unimproved, vacant or occupied, within five days’ written notice to do so,
shall cut or destroy, or cause to be cut or destroyed, any noxious or poisonous
weeds or tall grasses growing upon such lot or parcel of land, and to prevent
the same from blooming or going to seed, or exceeding a height of eight inches
or spreading pollen which may be harmful to human health.
   (b)   If the owner, occupant or person having the charge or management of
any lot or parcel of land does not cut or destroy or cause to be cut or
destroyed, noxious weeds or grasses as provided herein, the Mayor or the
Director of Community Development and or his or her designee is authorized,
utilizing available city personnel and equipment, and it is declared to be his
or her duty to cause to be cut or destroyed such noxious weeds or grasses.
   (c)   When any such noxious weeds or grasses are cut or destroyed by the
city, as provided herein, then after such work is performed, the city shall
give five days’ notice by regular mail to the owner, occupant or person having
the charge or management of lot or parcel of land at his or her known address,
to pay the cost of such cutting or destroying of noxious weeds or grasses,
which notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount of cost
incurred. If the same is not paid within 30 days after the mailing of the
notice, such amount may be certified to the County Auditor for collection as
other taxes and assessments are collected or the city may seek recovery of such
costs by civil action against the property owner involved.
   (d)   When it is deemed necessary to cut and destroy weeds or grasses on
private property, in accordance with the provisions of this section, the owner
shall be charged at the rate of $50 per hour, or portion thereof, or the actual
cost of such work, whichever is the larger.
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
§ 1379.07  SECURING UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (a)   All buildings or structures which are unsafe, unsanitary, or not
provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolesence or abandonment, are severally in contemplation of
this section, unsafe buildings.
   (b)   All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared illegal and shall be
abated by repair and rehabilitation or by boarding-up, demolition in accordance
with the following procedure.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector finds any building or structure or
portion thereof to be unsafe, as defined above, he or she shall, in accordance
with established procedure for legal notices, give the owner, agent or person
in control of such building or structure written notice stating the defects
thereof. This notice shall require the owner within a stated time either to
complete specified repairs or improvements, board-up or demolish and remove the
building or structure or portion thereof.
      (2)   When the city boards-up such property, utilizing available city
personnel and equipment, the city shall give five days’ notice by regular mail
to the owner, occupant or person having the charge or management of the
property, at his or her known address, to pay the cost of such boarding-up. The
notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount of cost incurred. If
the same is not paid within 30 days after the mailing of the notice, such
amount may be certified to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes and
assessments are collected or the city may seek recovery of such costs by civil
action against the property owner involved.
      (3)   When it is deemed necessary to board-up any private property, in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the owner shall be charged the
rate listed below per hour or portion thereof, or the actual cost of such work,
whichever is the larger.
 
Basement windows boarded  $30  Unit cost
Main doors boarded        $70  Unit cost
Overhead doors boarded    $150 Unit cost
Oversized windows boarded $65  Unit cost
Standard windows boarded  $50  Unit cost
 
(Ord. 61-92, passed 6-16-1992)
CHAPTER 1381:  CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
Section
1381.01   Definitions
1381.02   Registration
1381.03   Registration fee
1381.04   Failure to register
1381.05   Requirements for certification
1381.06   Fees, expirations and revocation
1381.07   Exceptions
1381.08   Failure to register; stop work order
1381.09   License revocation and suspension
1381.10   Suspended license restoration
1381.11   Surrender of license certificate; destruction of license
1381.96   Appeal to Board of Building Code Appeals
1381.97   Noncompliance with notice
1381.98   Interpretation of this chapter
 
1381.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing of contractors, see Ohio R.C. 715.27
§ 1381.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person or entity who contracts or is employed to perform any
work involved in construction as specified herein. The person or entity
purchasing may be the owner, occupant or resident agent of the premises or
another contractor. The term CONTRACTOR excludes a person who is an employee of
the purchasing person or entity. The phrase “work which requires a permit”
includes, but is not limited to, the following: building, plumbing, electrical,
heating, ventilating, air conditioning, sheet metal, piping, sewer, signs,
refrigeration, cement, asphalt, masonry, excavating, carpentry, drywall
roofing, structural steel, siding installation or sprinkler installation.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR . A contractor, as defined above, who contracts with the
owner, occupant or resident agent of the premises.
   SUBCONTRACTOR. A contractor who contracts with a general contractor or other
subcontractor, but who does not contract directly with the owner, occupant or
resident agent.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.02  REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No contractor or subcontractor shall perform any work within the city
without a current certificate of contractor registration from the Chief
Building Official.
   (b)   Contractors and subcontractors requiring registration.
Alarm
Asbestos abatement
Asbestos testing
Asphalt
Carpentry
Carpentry finish
Communication wiring
Concrete
Demolition
Drywall
Electrical
Excavating
Fence
Fire protection
General contractor commercial
General contractor residential
General contractor remodeling
Gutter
HVAC
House movers
Insulation
Lead abatement
Lead testing
Plumbing
Radon abatement
Radon testing
Refrigeration
Roofing commercial
Roofing residential
Sewer builder, cleaner, reliner/renovater
Siding
Sign
Sprinkler
Structural steel
Waterproofing
(Others as required by the Building Official)
 
   (c)   Subcontractors permitted an optional registration to provide consumer
confidence.
 
Exterior painters
Handyman
Landscapers
(Others as recommended by the Building Official)
 
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.03  REGISTRATION FEE.
   The registration fee for all required and optional contractors and
subcontractors is as follows:
   (a)   Registration prior to starting any work within the city: $150. Fees
are waived if an emergency repair is done and permit is pulled within 48 hours.
   (b)   Registration after starting work and being notified of registration
requirement and obtaining registration within ten days: $300.
   (c)   Registration fee 11 days to 30 days after notification: $450.
   (d)   Registration fee 31 days or more after notification: $500.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999; Ord. 01-19, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 16-20,
passed 6-2-2020)
§ 1381.04  FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to register when notified
shall be charged an additional administrative fee as specified in §
1381.03 of the codified ordinances. A written request can be made to the Chief
Building Official stating the reasons the registration will not or could not be
submitted within that time period. If the Chief Building Official rules that
the reasons are justified, he or she may waive the additional fee. Until
registered, no contractor or subcontractor required to be registered may
undertake any regulated work or improvement.
   (b)   Any contractor or subcontractor notified of failure to register who
immediately stops work and chooses not to register may complete a form provided
by the Building Department and pay a processing fee of twice the registration
cost.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.05  REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION.
   (a)   An application for a certificate of contractor registration shall be
filed each year with the Building Department. An application may be filed no
sooner than December 1 of the year preceding the time of registration.
   (b)   The application shall include the following: an application form
requiring:
      (1)   The name, address, business and home telephone numbers, and Social
Security number or federal tax identification number of the applicant; type of
ownership (sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation) and the responsible
parties for legal notification and a copy of their driver’s license or other
identification approved by the Chief Building Official;
      (2)   The name, address and Social Security number of each employee and
subcontractor of the applicant who are currently working on any site in the
city;
      (3)   The name, address and Social Security number of each employee and
subcontractor of the applicant who worked on any site in the city during the
calendar year preceding the year of registration, provided that, in case of an
applicant which files its application prior to January 31 of the year of
registration, the Chief Building Official may issue a certificate of
registration on condition that the applicant submits the information no later
than January 31 and, if the information is not so submitted, the Chief Building
Official may suspend the conditional certificate of registration until such
time as the information is submitted, upon giving written notice to the
contractor;
      (4)   A current certificate of competency from the state must be
submitted for all plumbing, HVAC, sprinklers and electrical contractors;
      (5)   A current license must be submitted for all asbestos, lead and
radon abatement and testing contractors;
      (6)   A current contractor registration from another testing city will be
accepted as a substitute for the certificate of competency from the state only
if the submission includes evidence that the contractor has completed a minimum
30-hour code course in the previous three years. The education requirement is
effective January 1, 2001; and
      (7)   The Chief Building Official may accept other states’ registrations
at his or her discretion.
   (c)   A certificate of insurance naming the city and its agents as
additional insured parties in the minimum amounts of $100,000 per person and
$300,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $50,000 per occurrence for
property damage. The certificate of insurance shall also name the City Building
Department as certificate holder.
   (d)   A bond in the amount of $25,000 on a bond form provided by the Chief
Building Official which shall list the city and the permit holder and/or owner
as additionally covered parties.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999; Ord. 02-19, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 1381.06  FEES, EXPIRATIONS AND REVOCATION.
   (a)   The Chief Building Official, or his or her designee, shall issue the
certificate of contractor registration upon submission of a complete
application and the deposit of the fee as per §
1381.03.
   (b)   If the Chief Building Official, or his or her designee, finds that the
contractor has failed to submit a complete application, has submitted an
application containing false information, or has been notified of a violation
of a section of the Building Code or Zoning Code, notice in writing shall be
delivered by hand, certificate of mailing, certified mail or ordinary mail to
the contractor or his or her agent. The notice shall specify a reasonable
period of time within which to remedy the findings. If the contractor fails to
remedy the findings, the Chief Building Official shall proceed with a stop
order and revocation of the certificate of contractor registration pursuant to
the procedures set forth in this chapter and subject to the appeal procedure
set forth in Chapter 1311.
   (c)   The certificate of contractor registration, unless otherwise provided
by the city, shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.07  EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   This chapter shall not apply to a homeowner who acts as his or her own
general contractor; however:
      (1)   Each subcontractor of the homeowner shall be registered in
accordance with the above sections;
      (2)   The homeowner shall submit an affidavit to the Chief Building
Official outlining which subcontractor shall be performing each phase of the
construction; and
      (3)   The homeowner’s work shall comply with the applicable Building
Code, ordinances, rules and regulations, and shall be inspected prior to being
concealed or completed.
   (b)   This chapter shall not apply to a commercial, industrial or rental
property owner who acts as his or her own general contractor, such owner:
      (1)   Shall conform with divisions (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3) above;
      (2)   Shall use registered electricians, plumbers, HVAC and sprinkler
contractors; and
      (3)   Commercial industrial or rental property owners may act as any
other sub-trade, provided it is them or their full-time employees who are
performing the work.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.08  FAILURE TO REGISTER; STOP WORK ORDER.
   Any person, firm or corporation performing work in the city without having a
current and valid registration certificate may be ordered to stop all work in
progress by the Chief Building Official and/or his or her assignees until
proper registration, bond and insurance is obtained. The Chief Building
Official and/or his or her assignees may, if the condition or situation
warrants, obtain the assistance of other governmental agencies in the
enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.09  LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (a)   The license of any person who violates this chapter or permits the
same to be violated by any employee or agency, or who willfully makes a false
statement in any application for a license, or who permits any license issued
to him or her to be used in any manner not authorized by this chapter, shall be
subject to temporary suspension or permanent revocation by the Building Code
Board of Appeals upon referral from the Chief Building Official regardless of
whether or not criminal proceedings have been instituted. Such revocation shall
take effect only after a hearing on the revocation which shall be given at
least five days prior thereto. Notice of such hearing shall be sent to the
licensee personally or by leaving a copy at a place of business designated in
the license theretofore existing.
   (b)   As a preliminary to revocation, any license issued by the city may be
placed on probation by the Chief Building Official or his or her assignee, for
just cause. Just cause shall include violation of this chapter or any other
applicable provisions of the codified ordinances of the city. Any such
probation shall be put into effect by serving a notice thereof upon the
licensee personally or by leaving a copy at his or her place of business as
designated in the license. Such notice shall specify the reason for the
probation and the period of time, in no case exceeding 30 days, within which
the condition causing the probation must be corrected and may state that unless
such correction is made within such time the license will be revoked.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.10  SUSPENDED LICENSE RESTORATION.
   Upon showing by a licensee whose license has been suspended that he or she
has in good faith complied with all conditions at any time prior to the time
specified in the notice of suspension, his or her license may be restored at
any time.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.11  SURRENDER OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE; DESTRUCTION OF LICENSE.
   No person whose license has been suspended or revoked shall fail, refuse or
neglect to surrender the license certificate to the Chief Building Official
upon demand, nor shall any person conceal or destroy any license certificate
during the year for which such license was issued.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.96  APPEAL TO BOARD OF BUILDING CODE APPEALS.
   
Chapter 1311 shall govern appeals to the Board of Building Code Appeals.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.97  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE.
   
Chapter 1311 shall govern noncompliance with notice.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.98  INTERPRETATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   
Chapter 1301 shall govern interpretation of this chapter.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 1381.99  PENALTY.
   Section
1301.99 shall govern the penalty for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 169-99, passed 12-21-1999)
CHAPTER 1382:  ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF VACANT HOUSES
AND BUILDINGS AND REGISTRATION FEES
Section
1382.01   Purpose
1382.02   Definitions and applicability; registration statement and fees
1382.03   Application
1382.04   Applicability
1382.05   Issuance
1382.06   Vacated building maintenance standards
1382.07   Registration statement and fees; local agent
1382.08   Procedure for renewal
1382.09   Appeal rights
1382.10   One time waiver of registration fee
1382.11   Two-year waiver
1382.12   Delinquent registration fees as a lien
1382.13   Duty to amend registration statement
1382.14   Exceptions
1382.15   General liability and fire/casualty insurance requirements
1382.16   Board of Zoning Building Appeals
1382.17   Grounds for appeal
 
1382.99   Violations and penalties
§ 1382.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the registration of any and all
vacant houses and buildings within the corporate limits of the city, and to
require property owners to be fined and to pay an annual registration fee to
assist the city government, particularly the departments of Police, Fire,
Building and Housing, in protecting the public health, safety, welfare and
property values; to monitor the number of vacant houses and buildings in the
city; to assess property owners for the impact of the effects of the condition
of those houses and buildings on nearby businesses and the neighborhoods in
which they are located, particularly in light of fire safety hazards, illegal
dumping, scrapping, vandalism, general crime and nuisances, and unlawful,
temporary occupancy by transients, including illicit drug users and drug
traffickers; and to require of the owners of such vacant houses and buildings
to register with the city and to pay related fees; and to promote substantial
efforts on the party of all property owners to rehabilitate such vacant houses
and buildings. The provisions of this chapter are applicable to the owners of
such vacant houses and buildings as set forth herein and are in addition to and
not in lieu of any and all other applicable provisions of this chapter, the
Health and Sanitation Code, and any other applicable provisions of the codified
ordinances of the city or state law.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.02  DEFINITIONS AND APPLICABILITY; REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND FEES.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows.
   BLIGHTED AREA. Shall have the same meaning as Ohio R.C. Chapter 1.08.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one or more exterior doors, other
than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of
plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS.  The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior of the
building and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof, the
electrical and plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer system, and
the sidewalk, drive-way, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced
by the departments of Building and Housing.
   OCCUPIED. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be occupied if one or
more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides in all or any part
of the building as the licensed business-occupant, or as the legal or equitable
owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis, or any
combination of the same. For purposes of this chapter, evidence offered to
prove that a building is so OCCUPIED  may include, but shall not be limited to,
the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S. Postal
Service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water and sewer
services; a valid and current certificate of business occupancy, certificate of
occupancy and registration with the city’s Municipal Income Tax Department, or
the most recent federal, state or city income tax statements indicating that
the subject property is the official business or residence address of the
person or business claiming occupancy; or proof of pre-rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be open if any one or more exterior doors other than a storm
door is broken, open and, or closed but, without a properly functioning lock to
secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked
and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, agent or any other person, firm or corporation that
is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to the provisions of
this chapter, and as set forth below, regardless of whether or not the property
has been transferred from a previous owner to a new owner during a foreclosure
action.
   VACANT. A building or structure shall be deemed to be vacant if no person or
persons actually or currently conducts a lawfully licensed business, or
lawfully resides or lives in any part of the building as the legal or equitable
owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupants, or tenant(s) on a
permanent, non-transient basis.
   WELL-KEPT AND MAINTAINED. A house or building is well-kept and maintained
when the property owner has boarded the property and keeps it boarded; the
property owner is cutting the grass, weeds and trimming bushes and trees; the
property owner is keeping the property free of trash or debris; the property
owner is keeping the property painted, sightly and in general good condition.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.03  APPLICATION.
   Application for a vacated building maintenance license shall be made on a
form provided by the Mayor and verified by the owner. The application shall
disclose all measures to be taken to ensure that the building will be kept
weather-tight and secure from trespassers, safe for entry by police officers
and firefighters in times of emergency, and together with its premises, free
from nuisance and in good order. At the time of application, the owner may
arrange for a preliminary inspection of the premises by a Building Inspector or
Housing Inspector in the presence of the owner or an agent of the owner having
responsibility for maintenance of the premises. Upon request by the owner, the
Building Inspector or Housing Inspector shall, after completing the preliminary
inspection, issue a report in writing to the owner specifying the reasons why
the premises does not conform with the vacated building maintenance standards
set forth in this chapter. Upon conclusion of the time for compliance and an
extension granted pursuant to §
1382.06, the Building Inspector or Housing Inspector shall conduct a final
inspection to determine if the premises conforms with the vacated building
maintenance standards set forth in this chapter. If the owner fails or refuses
to consent to and arrange for an inspection, the Mayor, Chief Building Official
or Chief of Fire must first obtain a search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction to authorize inspection of the premises for the purpose of
determining the structural integrity of the building.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.04  APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to each owner of
any building that is not a dwelling that shall have been vacant and not
maintained for more than 45 consecutive days, and to each owner of any property
consisting of one or more vacant dwellings that shall have been vacant for more
than 45 consecutive days. Each such property owner shall cause to be filed a
notarized registration statement, which shall include the street address and
parcel number of each such vacant building, the names and addresses of all
owners, as hereinafter described, copies of each owner’s driver’s license and
any other information deemed necessary by the departments of Building and
Housing. The registration fee(s) shall be billed by the Building Department and
shall be paid no later than December 31 of each year.
   (b)   For purposes of this chapter, the following shall also be applicable:
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   If an estate, the name, business address and telephone number of
the executor of the estate;
      (3)   If a trust, the name, residential addresses and telephone numbers
of all trustees, grantors and beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names, residential addresses and telephone
numbers of all partners with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names,
residential addresses and telephone numbers of all principals with an interest
of 10% or greater;
      (6)   If an individual person, the name, residential address, direct
telephone number and other contact information of that individual person.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.05  ISSUANCE.
   The Mayor shall authorize the issuance of a Vacated Building Maintenance
License of being satisfied after the Chief Building Official, Housing Inspector
or Building Inspector has inspected the building and determining that it is in
compliance with the Vacated Building Maintenance Standards set forth in §
1382.06, and that it is adequately protected from intrusion by trespassers and
from deterioration by weather.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.06  VACATED BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   A building shall be deemed well-kept and adequately protected from intrusion
by trespassers and from deterioration by the weather if:
   (a)   Building openings. Doors, windows, areaways and other openings are
weather-tight and secured against entry by birds, vermin and trespassers.
Missing or broken doors, windows and opening coverings are covered with at
least one-half inch of CDX plywood, weather protected, tightly fitted to the
opening and secured by screws or bolts;
   (b)   Roofs. The roof and flashings are sound, tight, will not admit
moisture and drained to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or
interior;
   (c)   Drainage. The building gutters and downspouts are watertight and
entire storm drainage system is adequately sized, installed in an approved
manner, functional and discharged in an approved manner;
   (d)   Building structure. The building is maintained in good repair,
structurally sound, free from debris, rubbish and garbage, and sanitary, and
interior floors, walking surfaces and stairs are structurally sound, and
interior walls and ceilings are free of loose or hanging plaster and finishes,
so as not to pose a threat to the public health or safety;
   (e)   Structural members. The structural members are free of deterioration
and capable of safely bearing imposed dead and live loads;
   (f)   Foundation walls. The foundation walls are plumb, free from open
cracks and breaks, and rat proof;
   (g)   Exterior walls. The exterior walls are free of holes, breaks and loose
or rotting materials. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment;
   (h)   Decorative features. The cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features are safe, anchored and in
good repair. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the elements
and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating materials,
such as paint or similar surface treatment;
   (i)   Structure extensions. All balconies, porches, canopies, marquees,
signs, metal awnings, cornices, stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust
ducts and similar features are in good repair, anchored, safe and sound.
Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment;
   (j)   Chimneys and towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar
appurtenances are structurally safe. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment;
   (k)   Sidewalk openings. Yard-walks, steps and openings in sidewalks are
safe for pedestrian travel;
   (l)   Accessory and appurtenant structures. Accessory and appurtenant
structures such as garages, sheds, and fences are free from safety, health and
fire hazards; and
   (m)   Premises. The premises on which a structure is located is clean, safe
and sanitary, maintained free of weeds, junk cars and litter, and does not pose
a threat to the public health or safety.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.07  REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND FEES; LOCAL AGENT.
   (a)   If none of the persons listed in§
1382.04(b)(1) through (7) is shown at an address within the state, the
registration statement also shall provide the name, address and telephone
number of a person who resides within the state and who is authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of the owners and who shall be designated as a
responsible, local party or agent, both for purposes of notification in the
event of an emergency affecting the public health, safety or welfare and for
purposes of service of any and all notices or registration statements as herein
authorized and in connection herewith.
   (b)   Registration shall be required for all vacant houses and buildings,
whether vacant and secure, vacant and open or vacant and boarded; and shall be
required whenever any building has remained vacant for 45 consecutive days or
more.
   (c)   In no instance shall the registration of a vacant house or building,
and the payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the owner, agent
or responsible party from responsibility for compliance with any other building
code or housing code requirement. One registration statement may be filed to
include all vacant houses and buildings of the owner so registering.
   (d)   The owner of the vacant property, no earlier than November 1 of each
calendar year, shall be responsible for the payment of the non-refundable $500
annual registration fee. Said fee shall be billed by the Mayor and based on the
duration of the vacancy as determined by the following scale and conditions:
      (1)   No fee for properties vacant less than 45 days if the property is
actively being rented, sold or rehabilitated, and that are well-kept and
maintained;
      (2)   Five hundred dollar annual registration fee for vacant properties
where the owner of the property is maintaining it in such a condition that it
is well-kept and maintained; and where the owner is in compliance with all
applicable ordinances, city, state and federal tax laws; and where the owner
has placed a clearly identifiable placard on the property that contains the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of any and all owners as defined by this
chapter;
      (3)   One thousand dollars annually for properties vacant and not well-
kept and maintained over 45 days but less than one year;
      (4)   Two thousand dollars annually for properties vacant and not well-
kept and maintained more than one year but less than two years;
      (5)   Three thousand dollars annually for properties vacant and not well-
kept and maintained more than two years but less than three years;
      (6)   Five thousand dollars annually for properties vacant and not well-
kept and maintained more than three years but less than five years; and
      (7)   Ten thousand dollars annually for properties vacant and not well-
kept more than five years but less than ten years; plus an additional $1,000
for each year in excess of ten years.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.08  PROCEDURE FOR RENEWAL.
   (a)   At the time of application for a renewal of a vacated building
maintenance license, the owner may arrange with the Chief Building Official for
the inspection of the building, its premises and interior. If the owner fails
or refuses to consent to and arrange for an inspection, the Chief Building
Official must first obtain a search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction to authorize inspection of the premises for the purpose of
determining the structural integrity of the building, that it will be safe for
entry by firefighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that the
building and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time
that the building remains vacant. The Chief Building Official shall renew a
vacated building maintenance license on being satisfied after having inspected
the building that the building is in compliance with the vacated building
maintenance standards set forth in §
1382.06, adequately protected from intrusion by trespassers and from
deterioration by the weather, will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare, will not unreasonably interfere with the reasonable and
lawful use and enjoyment of other premises within the neighborhood, and will
not pose any extraordinary hazard to police officers or firefighters entering
the premises in times of emergency; otherwise the Director shall deny renewal.
   (b)   The license renewal shall be for one year, which renewal shall run
from the anniversary of the date that the building or portion thereof was
initially vacated by the Chief Building Official.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.09  APPEAL RIGHTS.
   The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition of the registration
fees to the Board of Zoning Appeals upon filing an application in writing with
the applicable $50 non-refundable filing fee to the Building Department no
later than 30 calendar days from the date of the billing statement. On appeal,
the owner shall bear the burden of providing satisfactory objective proof of
occupancy, as defined in §
1382.02.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.10  ONE TIME WAIVER OF REGISTRATION FEE.
   A one-time waiver of the registration fee or an extension of a waiver for up
to 90 days may be granted by the Mayor upon application of the owner and upon
review and advice of the Law Director, within 30 calendar days from the date of
the bill for the registration fee; or if denied by the Mayor, upon appeal to
the Council, if the owner:
   (a)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof that he or she is in the process
of demolition, rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant house
or building; and
   (b)   Objectively demonstrates the anticipated length of time for the
demolition, rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant house or
building; or
   (c)   Provides satisfactory proof that he or she was actively attempting to
sell or lease the property during the vacancy period; and
   (d)   Has paid all past due vacant registration fees and all other financial
obligations and/or debts owed to the city which are associated with the vacant
property. With regard to an extension of a waiver only, the time period of the
extension shall commence on the date of the written decision granting the
extension and, in no event shall an extension exceed 90 days. An extension of a
waiver shall only be granted once.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.11  TWO-YEAR WAIVER.
   Upon application by the owner and satisfaction of §
1382.10(d) above, the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a one-time two-year
waiver of the registration fee, or an extension of a waiver for up to 90 days
or if denied by the Mayor/Safety Director, upon appeal to the Council, if the
owner meets the criteria for non-profit organizations as defined by 26 U.S.C. §
501(c)(3). With regard to an extension of a waiver only, the time period of the
extension shall commence on the date of the written decision granting the
extension and, in no event shall an extension exceed 90 days. An extension of a
waiver shall only be granted once.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.12  DELINQUENT REGISTRATION FEES AS A LIEN.
   After the owner is given notice of the amount of the registration fee due,
except for those owners that have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to §§
1382.10 and
1382.11, and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the city, and shall constitute a lien. The
city shall commence a civil action to collect the unpaid debt.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.13  DUTY TO AMEND REGISTRATION STATEMENT.
   If the status of the registration information changes during the course of
any calendar year, it is the responsibility of the owner, responsible party or
agent for the same to contact the Department of Building and Housing within 30
days of the occurrence of such change and advise the departments in writing of
those changes.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.14  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any building owned by the United States, the
state, the city, nor to any of their respective agencies or political
subdivisions.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.15  GENERAL LIABILITY AND FIRE/CASUALTY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of a building or house kept vacant shall acquire or otherwise
maintain general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $300,000 for
buildings designed primarily for use as residential units, including buildings
containing no more than four dwelling units; and not less than $1,000,000 for
any other building, including, but not limited to, buildings designed for
manufacturing, industrial, storage or commercial uses, including buildings
containing five or more dwelling units. Any insurance policy shall provide for
written notice to the Mayor within 30 days of any lapse, cancellation or change
in coverage. Upon request, the owner shall provide evidence of the insurance to
the Mayor, the Director of Law, the Chief of Police, Chief of Fire, Director of
Community Development or the Chief Building Official.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.16  BOARD OF ZONING BUILDING APPEALS.
   (a)   Written determination by the Director. Any person who has a bona fide
controversy with the Chief Building Official as to the interpretation or
application of a provision or provisions of this chapter, or other related laws
and ordinances subject to administration by the Chief Building Official may
apply in writing to the Mayor for a written interpretation or ruling, setting
forth in the application the provisions of this chapter and giving full details
and any other information, including approved plans when necessary, as may be
required by the Chief Building Official to determine a ruling.
   (b)   Appeals. Any person adversely affected by a ruling of the Chief
Building Official issued pursuant to §
1382.06 may appeal the ruling to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (c)   Notice of appeal. The notice of appeal shall set forth in writing the
interpretation, ruling, or order appealed from, and the provisions of all
related laws and ordinances involved and shall state wherein the
interpretation, ruling or order is claimed to be erroneous. If the appeal is
based on a modified application or alternative arrangement, the notice shall
describe the modified application or alternative arrangement that can be put
into effect without defeating the public safety, health and general welfare
purpose and intent of the provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   Time limits on appeals. A notice of appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board within
the time limits provided by this chapter. The time for appeal shall be the
earliest of the following times:
      (1)   Ten days from the date of personal delivery of an order to demolish
or barricade a building;
      (2)   Fifteen days from the date of mailing, posting or delivery to the
residence or business of an order to demolish or barricade a building; or
      (3)   Thirty days in all other cases where the board has jurisdiction to
hear the appeal.
   (e)   Appeal fee. With the filing of an appeal, the appellant shall pay the
fee prescribed in this chapter. Such filing fee shall be in addition to the
payment of the regular building permit fee and any other fee that thereafter
may accrue, and no portion of such filing fee shall be refunded whatever the
outcome of the appeal.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.17  GROUNDS FOR APPEAL.
   (a)   An appeal shall be based on one or both of the following grounds:
      (1)   The interpretation, ruling or order is erroneous or constitutes an
erroneous application of the particular provision of this chapter or related
laws and ordinances involved, or is otherwise contrary to law; and/or
      (2)   A modified application or alternative arrangement is available and
feasible where by the strict application of a particular provision or
provisions may be modified without defeating the public safety, health and
general welfare purpose and intent of the provisions of this chapter and
without permitting or constituting a provision for safety or sanitation which
would be, or is less safe or sanitary than is required by the state’s Building
Code.
   (b)   A variance from the applicable section of this chapter, the
administration thereof, or any rule or regulation made there under, in the
specific case, will not be contrary to the public interest, and a literal
enforcement of such provisions will result in undue hardship.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 1382.99  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   General penalty. The failure or refusal for any reason of any owner,
or agent of an owner acting on behalf of the owner, to register a vacant house
or building or to pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions
of this section, within 30 days after they become due, shall be a first degree
misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof by a fine in the amount of not
less than $500 nor more than $1,000 per violation, and shall be also punishable
with up to six months in jail Each day shall count as a separate violation.
Whenever the minimum fine of $500 is imposed, it shall not be subject to
suspension or reduction for any reason.
   (b)   Renewal fee. The fee for renewal of a vacated building maintenance
license to be determined by the scale in §
1382.07 shall be paid at the time of application for renewal and deposited in
the Building Hazard Abatement Fund. A renewal license shall expire on the
annual renewal date. The annual renewal date shall be December 31 of each year.
   (c)   Late fee. In addition to the amount assessed for the vacated building
maintenance license, the Chief Building Official shall charge a late fee equal
to the license or renewal fee or $1,000, whichever is less, if the owner fails
to obtain a vacated building maintenance license within the time provided by §§
1382.04 and
1382.07 or if the owner fails to apply for renewal of a vacated building
maintenance license before the annual renewal date. Unpaid late fees shall be
considered a debt collectible pursuant to §
1382.12.
   (d)   Refund. The Mayor shall refund the fees for a vacated building
maintenance license paid if the subject building is brought into compliance
with the standards of Chapter 1382 and reoccupied within one year of payment of
the application fee.
   (e)   Revocation of waivers. One year, two year and 90-day extension of
waivers issued pursuant to §§
1382.10 and
1382,11 shall be revoked by the Mayor if the property owner violates or
provides false information in any provision of §§
1382.03,
1382.06 –
1382.08,
1382.13 and
1382.15.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 6-2-2009)
PART 15:  FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      Chapter
         
1501.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
         
1511.   OPEN BURNING
         
1519.   FIREWORKS
         
1525.   FIRE ALARM MONITORING SYSTEMS
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                               
CHAPTER 1501:  FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
1501.01   Codes adopted
1501.02   Purpose
1501.03   Application
1501.04   Enforcement
1501.05   Compliance
1501.06   Posting arson laws
1501.07   Setting fires which spread
1501.08   Unfriendly fires in building; alarm duties
1501.09   Disclosure of true Fire Safety Inspector status
1501.10   Fire equipment sale or use; certification of installers
1501.11   Copies
1501.12   Conflict
1501.13   Storage limits for combustible and flammable liquids in outside
aboveground tanks; temporary permit
1501.14   Amendments
1501.15   Appeals
1501.16   Approved standards for equipment and installation
1501.17   Permits, licenses and fees
1501.18   Fire damaged structures: removal or repair securing fund
1501.19   Knox boxes
1501.20   False or unnecessary alarm charges
1501.21   Multiple dwellings
 
1501.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Appeals of orders, see Ohio R.C. 119.12
   Common Pleas Court jurisdiction, see Ohio R.C. 3737.44(A), 3737.51(H)
   Entry and inspection, see Ohio R.C. 737.34 et seq., 3737.14, 3737.41,
3737.42
   Fire extinguishing and alarm systems in rest and nursing homes, see Ohio
R.C. 3721.071
   Fires in parks, see §
931.12
   Fire investigation, see Ohio R.C. 737.27, 3737.24 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see Ohio R.C. 3737.82 et seq.; O.A.C. Ch. 1301:7-1 et seq.
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Self-service filling stations, see Ohio R.C. 3741.14
   State certification of Fire Safety Inspectors, see Ohio R.C. 3737.01(C),
3737.34
   State certification of firefighters, see Ohio R.C. 737.08, 737.22, 3737.33
§ 1501.01  CODES ADOPTED.
   (a)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 731.231, there is hereby adopted by the
municipality the Ohio Fire Code (OF), as adopted by the Ohio Division of State
Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce, effective July 1, 2007, and as published
in division 1301:7 of the Ohio Administrative Code (O.A.C.).
   (b)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 731.231, there is hereby adopted by the
municipality, NAPA 1 Fire Prevention Code, current edition, and NAPA 101 Life
Safety Code, current edition, of the National Fire Protection Association, and
their incorporate standards and codes as published in the National Fire Code of
the National Fire Protection Association. The same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. NAPA means National Fire
Protection Association.
§ 1501.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the codes and standards adopted in §
1501.01 is to prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.03  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of fire prevention codes adopted by this chapter apply to the
use of all lands and properties within the municipality and such other lands or
properties owned by the municipality which are situated outside the corporate
limits thereof.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall serve as Municipal Fire Safety Inspector unless he or
she has received a certificate issued by the state’s Board of Emergency Medical
Services under Ohio R.C. 4765.55 evidencing his or her satisfactory completion
of a fire safety inspection training program.
(R.C. § 3737.34)
   (b)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon examination or inspection,
shall issue citations when he or she finds conditions as specified in Ohio R.C.
3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons, buildings,
premises or property, and shall make any necessary remedial orders in
connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by use of the procedures
established by Ohio R.C. 3737.42 for hearing on the citation or Ohio R.C.
3737.44 for injunctive relief or temporary restraining order and oral order for
vacation of the building or premises.
   (c)   (1)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon reasonable belief and
after inspection or investigation, shall with reasonable promptness issue a
citation to the responsible person for a violation of the state’s Fire Code,
NAPA Fire Prevention Code, Life Safety Code or state’s Basic Building Code or
any order issued by the State Fire Marshal or any Municipal Fire Safety
Inspector.
      (2)   The citation shall fix a reasonable time for abatement of the
violation and a copy shall be furnished to the State Fire Marshal. Each
citation issued under this division (c) shall be prominently posted by the
responsible person, as prescribed by the state’s Fire Code, NAPA Fire
Prevention Code, Life Safety Code or state’s Building Code, at or near each
place a violation referred to if a citation occurs.
   (d)   Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Director of
Law shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3737. (Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.05  COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of
Chapter 1501 or any codes adopted thereby or any order issued pursuant thereto.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire protection activities as prescribed in the codes adopted by this chapter,
or fail to obtain a permit or license for the various uses or activities as
required by such code, or fail to comply, including payment of the fees
designated therefor.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.06  POSTING ARSON LAWS.
   The owner, operator or lessee of any transient residential building shall
post the provisions of Ohio R.C. 2909.02 and 2909.03 in a conspicuous place in
each room occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of
any nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.07  SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire, which
through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to any
structure, field or wood lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.08  UNFRIENDLY FIRES IN BUILDING; ALARM DUTIES.
   (a)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the state’s Basic Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly
fire, or upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the
premises, shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence,
call or otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire, and shall
spread an alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a
destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
   (c)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.63)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.09  DISCLOSURE OF TRUE FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR STATUS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself or herself out to be such, unless prior to commencing any
inspection function, he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency, and that he or she is not acting in an
official capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
(R.C. § 3737.64)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.10  FIRE EQUIPMENT SALE OR USE; CERTIFICATION OF INSTALLERS.
   (a)   No person shall sell, offer for sale or use any fire protection or
firefighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the State Fire Marshal in the state’s Fire Code.
   (b)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or firefighting
equipment without a certificate issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal.
(R.C. § 3737.65)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.11  COPIES.
   Copies of codes as adopted in this chapter are on file with the Council
Clerk for inspection by the public, and also on file in the County Law Library,
and the Clerk has copies available for distribution to the public at cost.
§ 1501.12  CONFLICT.
   (a)   The rules of the state’s Board of Building Standards, including the
state’s Building Code, shall supersede and govern any order, standard or rule
of the Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal, including the
Ohio Fire Code, in all cases where such orders, standards or rules are in
conflict with the rules of the state’s Board of Building Standards, except that
rules adopted and orders issued by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3743 prevail in the event of conflict.
(R.C. § 3781.11)
   (b)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other municipal ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
§ 1501.13  STORAGE LIMITS FOR COMBUSTIBLE AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE
ABOVEGROUND TANKS; TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   The storage of combustible and flammable liquids in outside aboveground
tanks is prohibited anywhere within the city limits, except by permit for
temporary use thereof.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)  Penalty, see §
1501.99
§ 1501.14  AMENDMENTS.
   The state’s Fire Code is hereby modified in the manner respectively
indicated:
   F-301.1 Open Burning (Amended).
   Bonfires: Burning of rubbish shall be prohibited except in approved
incinerators. Bonfires may be permitted with approval of the fire official and
after the issuance of a permit.
   F-301.4.4 Use of Outdoor Grills (Added).
   No person, tenant or lessee shall kindle or maintain a fire to be used for
the preparation of food or for any other purpose in any type of outdoor or
portable grill in any dwelling or apartment house or on or below any apartment
house balcony or within five feet of any structure.
   F-304.1 Accumulation of Waste (Amended).
   Accumulation of Waste (Outside): Accumulation of waste paper, wood, hay,
weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind shall
not be permitted to remain upon any roof or any court, yard, vacant lot, alley,
parking lot or open space.
   Accumulation of Waste (Inside): All combustibles, oily rags or waste
materials of any kind when kept within a building, shall be stored in an
approved manner or metal container. Storage shall not produce conditions which
in the opinion and judgment of the fire official will tend to create a nuisance
or a hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
   F-311.1 Fire Doors (Amended).
   Fire Doors Blocked Open: The use of door stops, wedges, and other unapproved
hold-open devices is prohibited. Where it is desired to keep the doors open,
the fire official shall require the installation of approved devices.
   F-313.2 Obstructions (Amended).
   Vehicles in Driveway: Designated fire lanes shall be maintained free of
obstructions and vehicles and marked in a manner prescribed by the fire
official.
   F-315.3 Asphalt (Tar) Kettles (Amended).
   There shall be a minimum of one 20 BC rated portable fire extinguisher
within 30 feet of each asphalt (tar) kettle during the period such kettle is in
use, and one additional minimum 20 BC rated portable fire extinguisher on the
roof being covered. A kettle in operation shall be placed a safe distance from
any combustible material or building.
   F-403.3 Elevator Warning Signs (Amended).
   All elevator lobby call stations and on all floors of building containing
said elevator shall be marked with approved signs reading as follows: USE
STAIRWAYS IN CASE OF FIRE - DO NOT USE ELEVATORS.
   F-405.0 Emergency Elevator Control (Amended).
   (a)   A two position keyed switch shall be provided at the main floor of one
of each group of elevators. When a switch is in the “on” position, the
elevators which are in normal service and controlled by that switch shall
return non-stop to the main floor.
      (1)   An elevator traveling away from the main floor shall reverse at the
next available floor without opening its doors.
      (2)   Door protective devices which may be affected by smoke or heat
shall be rendered inoperative.
      (3)   Elevators equipped with power operated doors and standing at a
floor other than the main floor, with doors open, shall close their doors
without delay.
   (b)   The return to a main floor may be initiated by heat and/or smoke
sensing devices in the building. If so, the switch required at a main floor
shall have three positions. The third position shall restore normal service
independent of these devices. In the event the sensing devices indicate a fire
on the main floor, the elevator shall be required to stop at the second floor.
   (c)   A keyed switch shall be provided in or adjacent to an operating panel
of each elevator. The switch, when operated, shall put the elevator on
emergency service.
      (1)   When on emergency service, an elevator shall be operable only by a
person in the elevator.
      (2)   Elevators on emergency service shall not respond to corridor calls.
      (3)   The opening of power operator doors shall be controlled by
continuous pressure “open” buttons or switches. If the open button or switch is
released during the “open” motion, the doors shall automatically reclose.
      (4)   Door protective devices which may be affected by smoke or heat
shall be rendered inoperative.
   (d)   Any building which shall install elevators shall have at least one
elevator cab with a minimum size floor space of seven feet by five feet.
   FM-405.1 Elevator Recalled (Amended).
   All buildings having floors used for human occupancy located more than
seventy-five feet above grade served by elevators shall have at least one
elevator in each bank equipped with emergency controls and all elevators shall
be equipped with elevator recall activated by a smoke detector in each lobby.
   F-503.2 Sprinkler Test (Amended).
   The inspectors’ test connections, main drain valves, and all control valves
on all sprinkler systems shall be operated at least once a year to determine
that there is free water flow at adequate pressure and that the supervisory
service, if any exists, is operating properly. An internal inspection of the
piping shall be performed periodically, but at least once every ten years to
check for debris buildup, and the piping is to be flushed if needed.
   F-510.2 Standpipes Testing (Amended).
   All standpipe and fire lines in all buildings and structures shall be tested
at least every two years.
   F-512.7 Smoke Detectors (Amended).
   All residential uses, as defined by the governing agency, shall be provided
with a minimum of one approved smoke detector in the sleeping area, guest room
or suite of a hotel, motel, lodging or boarding house. Each detector shall be
installed in accordance with NFPA 72E or NFIPA 74. All smoke detectors shall be
inspected in place at 12-month intervals to identify missing detectors, with
impeded smoke entry, dirty detectors and detectors no longer properly located
because of occupancy of structure change.
   F-517.1 Extinguishers (Amended).
   All hand operated portable extinguishing equipment shall be of approved size
and type suitable to the occupational use of the building and shall be
installed in corridors or other locations, visible and readily accessible to
the occupants of the building, selected, distributed, inspected, maintained,
tested and recharged in accordance with NFIPA 10.
   F-518.0 Apartment Buildings (Added).
   Alarm system: All apartment buildings more than three stories or with more
than eleven living units shall be provided with a fire alarm system in
accordance with Section 7-6 of the Life Safety Code.
Any apartment with more than twelve living units or greater than three stories
in height shall have smoke detectors placed in the hallways.
(Ord. 106-94, passed 10-18-1994)
   F-601.0 Blocked Egressways (Amended).
   (a)   A part of a stairway, whether interior or exterior, or of a hallway,
corridor, vestibule, balcony or bridge leading to stairway or exit shall not be
used in any way that will obstruct or restrict its use as a means of egress or
that will present a hazardous condition.
   (b)   (1)   Section 19-2.9 of the Life Safety Code is hereby added to the
Fire Prevention Code to read as follows: Emergency Lighting: Any apartment
building with more than twelve (12) living units or greater than three (3)
stories in height shall have emergency lighting in accordance with Section 5-
9 of the Life Safety Code.
      (2)   Section 19-3.4.1 of the Life-Safety Code is hereby added to the
Fire Prevention Code to read as follows: Alarm System: All apartment buildings
more than three stories or with more than eleven living units shall be provided
with a fire alarm system in accordance with Section 7-6 of the Life Safety
Code.
   F-602.0 Egress Doors (Amended).
   Exits Locked and Blocked: During the period of occupancy, an egress door
shall not be locked, bolted or otherwise fastened or obstructed by means, so
that the door cannot be opened from the inside by the use of the ordinary door
latch or knob by pressure on the door.
   F-603.02 Security (Amended).
   Bars on windows, grilles, grates or similar devices shall not be installed
in required emergency escape windows except when such devices are equipped with
approved release mechanisms that are operable from inside without the use of a
key or special knowledge or excessive force.
   F-604.1 Exit Signs (Amended).
   Exit Signs: All exit signs shall be maintained in a clean and legible
condition and shall be clearly illuminated at all times the building is
occupied.
   F-604.4 Emergency Lighting (Added).
   Any apartment with more than twelve living units or greater than three
stories in height shall have emergency lighting in accordance with Section 5-
9 of the Life Safety Code.
   FM-1600.3 Operation and Maintenance (Amended).
   All service stations, buildings, storage areas and premises shall be
operated and maintained in a safe condition at all times and shall conform to
all applicable provisions of the Ohio Fire Code.
   F-1600.4 Garages (Added).
   Approved automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in all garages
located in basements and sub-basements housing three or more motor vehicles and
garages located in buildings in which one or more stories or parts thereof
above or in connection therewith are occupied for other purposes, when the
garages have a capacity of eight or more passenger automobiles or two or more
trucks or buses for loading or storage.
   F-3000.4 Location of Containers (Added).
   (a)   In the U2 Use District, storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
prohibited, and the use of liquefied petroleum on any premises at any one time
is limited to one fifteen-pound container.
   (b)   In the U-3 to U-6 Use Districts, the use and storage of liquefied
petroleum shall be in sixty-pound or less containers, and not more than five
such containers shall be stored in any building or premises having ground area
of less than 4,000 square feet. Industrial occupancies having an area greater
than 4,000 square feet may store additional containers of liquefied petroleum
gas, provided the number of containers and their location are approved by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986; Ord. 7964, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 1501.15  APPEALS.
   The Board of Building Code Appeals, as established by Chapter 1311, shall be
the Board of Appeals for this chapter and its powers and duties and the
procedures for appeal shall be as provided in Chapter 1311.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.16  APPROVED STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND INSTALLATION.
   (a)   All fire prevention equipment and fire prevention installations made
after the effective date of this section shall be in conformity with the
provisions of the state’s Fire Code, Life Safety Code or the NAPA 1, whichever
is the more restrictive applicable provision, as adopted by this chapter and in
conformity with accepted safe practice.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, in statutes or rules
promulgated by authority of statutes or in other ordinances, conformity with
the applicable requirements of the standards and publications set forth in the
Ohio Fire Code shall be accepted as conformity with safe practice. In the event
that a standard or publication bears no date, then the standard publication of
the most recent date shall be applicable. The Board of Fire District Appeals
shall have the authority to change, modify or supplement any of the
requirements of the aforesaid standards and publications when deemed necessary
in the interest of public safety or to further define accepted safe practice.
(Ord. 7828, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.17  PERMITS, LICENSES AND FEES.
   (a)   (1)   A permit or license, or fees, or all of these, shall be required
to maintain, store or handle materials or to conduct processes or operations
which produce conditions hazardous to life or property, or to install equipment
used in connection with such activities or to include the following categories.
Alarm systems
Bowling establishments
Cellulose nitrate motion picture film
Cellulose nitrate plastics (pyroxylin)
Combustible fibres
Compressed gases
Dry cleaning plants
Dust explosions, prevention of
Explosives, ammunition, and blasting agents
Festivals, public gatherings with food preparation
Fire alarm test
Fire inspection required to meet state and/or county licensing requirements
Fire protection system installation and repair
Fire signaling and alarm systems
Fire suppression hood test
Fireworks
Flammable and combustible liquids
Flammable finishes, application of
Fruit ripening processes
Fumigation and thermal insecticide fogging
Generators and calcium carbide
Hazardous materials and chemicals
Hood system
Hood suppression system
Hot tar applications
Liquid petroleum gases and maintenance
Lumber yards and woodworking plants
Magnesium
Multi-housing fire prevention license
New business inspection
New construction (nonresidential)
Oil burning equipment
Organic coatings
Ovens and furnaces
Places of assembly
Precautions against fire, general
Re-inspection - 2nd time
Re-inspection - 3rd time, and thereafter
Service stations and garages
Smoke detectors
Sprinkler test
Standpipe test
Tents, air supported and other temporary structures
Underground storage tanks
Vehicle tire rebuilding plants
Waste material handling plants
Welding or cutting, acetylene
 
      (2)   Fire prevention permits shall be required for the installation and
repair of fire protection systems, fire signaling and alarm systems, UST’s
(underground storage tanks) pressure testing, maintenance and removal,
environmental samplings relating to soil and water contamination, hood systems
(including duct and plenums), and hot tar applications (structures). One permit
shall be issued and cost $100.
   (b)   Applications for permits, licenses and tests must be approved by the
Fire Chief or an officer of the Fire Department designated in his or her stead,
and no permit or license shall be issued until such approval is noted on the
application. The Fire Chief or such officer may require that the applicant file
a bond in such amount as is deemed adequate to cover all damages which might
result from such business, operation or installation.
   (c)   The fee for permit, a license or a test shall be $100.  No fee shall
be required where education is not for profit (i.e. Public City Schools) one
permit shall be issued per address or job as described above. Permit addresses
includes but are not limited to any business, office, commercial, factory,
mercantile, retail or any four or more residential units. Any property
containing more than one structure with the same address shall require one
permit; any property containing buildings with separated addresses shall
require one permit per address. Each permit will cost $100. Fee shall be paid
to Fire Department and permits and licenses shall be issued by the Chief of
Fire. Licenses shall be issued for a calendar year.
   (d)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting the authority
of the city or the Fire Chief to refuse to grant a license or permit for any
business, operation or installation considered unduly hazardous to life or
property.
(Ord. 44-07, passed 8-21-2007; Ord. 23-19, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 1501.18  FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES: REMOVAL OR REPAIR SECURING FUND.
   (a)   The municipality hereby authorizes the procedure described in Ohio
R.C. 3929.86(C) and (D) to be implemented whereby no insurance company doing
business in the state shall pay a claim of a named insured for fire damage to a
structure located within this municipality unless the applicable provisions of
Ohio R.C. 3929.86 are fully complied with.
   (b)   (1)   The Fire Chief is hereby designated as the municipal officer
authorized to carry out the duties of Ohio R.C. 3929.86.
      (2)   In addition to carrying out the duties of Ohio R.C. 3929.86, the
Fire Chief shall also account to the Director of Finance as to the status of
any proceeds received hereunder; and disposition of such proceeds shall be made
according to law.
   (c)   The Director of Finance is hereby empowered, authorized and directed
to carry out any duties as may be required by him or her to effectuate Ohio
R.C. 3929.86, including the certification of costs incurred by the municipality
for the removal, repair or securing of any fire damaged structure to the County
Auditor under Ohio R.C. 715.261.
   (d)   The Clerk of the Council shall file a certified copy of this section
immediately upon passage hereof to the State Superintendent of Insurance, 2100
Stella Court, Columbus, Ohio 43215.
(Ord. 7815, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 1501.19  KNOX BOXES.
   (a)   An outside knox box shall be installed on new and existing buildings
as required by the Fire Chief.
   (b)   The knox box shall be of a type approved by the Fire Department and
Emergency Rescue Services and shall be keyed for the Fire Department.
   (c)   The knox box shall be in a location as stipulated by the Fire Chief
and shall contain the necessary keys as determined by the Fire Department.
§ 1501.20  FALSE OR UNNECESSARY ALARM CHARGES.
   (a)   If more than two unnecessary alarms occur at a particular location in
a given 12-month period, the Fire Chief and the Police Chief shall invoice the
person responsible for the alarm system as identified in division (b) below for
reimbursement of a portion of the costs of responding to the third and
subsequent following schedule:
 
Third unnecessary alarm                 $50
Fourth unnecessary alarm and thereafter $100
 
   (b)   As used in this section, PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ALARM SYSTEM
means each owner and leaseholder, if any, of the property or properties served
by the alarm system, and such person shall be jointly and severally liable for
the charges assessed pursuant to this section.
   (c)   As used in this section, a PARTICULAR LOCATION  means a property or a
group of contiguous or noncontiguous properties, whether or not under common
ownership, which are under a common street address, both as to house or
building number and street name.
   (d)   The charges herein prescribed shall be due and payable upon receipt of
invoice therefor, except that the charges shall be suspended pending the
outcome of any hearing conducted pursuant to §
1501.15.
(Ord. 45-07, passed 8-21-2007; Ord. 25-09, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 1501.21  MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   (a)   Every multiple dwelling shall be provided with fire protective
features approved as being adequate for the protection of the occupants
thereof. The minimum requirements for such protection are as follows.
      (1)   Every public hallway, corridor, stairway, exit or other means of
egress shall be protected against fire with construction, other than doors,
having a fire resistance rating of not less than three-quarter of an hour and
shall be kept clear and unobstructed at all times, so as to afford safe passage
from each dwelling unit to open space at ground level.
      (2)   All doors into interior stairways shall be windowless, solid core
(or approved equivalent), self-closing doors. All doors used for egress into
public hallways or corridors, other than into interior stairways, shall be
windowless, solid core (or approved equivalent) doors.
      (3)   The underside of any stairway located above a basement stairway or
cellar stairway shall be protected by material having a fire resistance rating
of not less than three-quarters of an hour.
      (4)   Basement or cellar stairways shall be separated from the first
floor level by openings protected by self-closing doors having a fire
resistance rating of not less than three-quarters of an hour.
      (5)   Every multiple dwelling containing more than two dwelling units on
any floor, which dwelling units are served by an interior public stairway and
hallway as a means of ingress and egress, shall have such stairway completely
separated from such hallway by a fire resistive partition having a fire
resistance rating of not less than three-quarters of an hour with the opening
in such partition protected by a self-closing, windowless, solid core (or
approved equivalent) door having a fire resistance rating of not less than
three-quarters of an hour.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of division (a) above, in
existing buildings originally designed for multiple dwellings, the following
construction shall be considered as meeting the requirements of division (a)
above.
      (1)   Well-constructed lath and plaster construction shall be considered
as meeting the requirements of divisions (a)(1) and (a)(3) above.
      (2)   Existing doors shall be considered as meeting the requirements of
division (a)(2) above if any plain glass in such doors is replaced with one-
fourth inch wired glass, or approved equivalent, if any doors having a fire
resistance rating less than that of a solid core door are painted on both sides
with an approved fire retarding paint and if, in the case of existing doors to
interior stairways, such doors are also provided with self-closing devices.
      (3)   Existing windows or transoms shall be considered as meeting the
requirements of division (a)(1) above if fixed and nonopenable, and if any
plain glass in such windows or transoms is replaced with one-fourth inch wired
glass or approved equivalent.
   (c)   Whenever the use or occupancy of a building or structure, or part
thereof, has been changed from the use or occupancy for which the building or
structure was originally designed or intended to be used, the Building
Inspector shall determine and establish the required fire protective features.
Except as he or she may otherwise determine, such fire protective features
shall conform with the provisions of division (a) above.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of divisions (a), (b) and (c)
above, the Building Inspector shall have the power and authority to require
more rigid fire protective features or special fire protective features where,
in his or her opinion, special situations of construction, design, occupancy,
fire hazard or other factors require such safeguards in the interest of public
safety.
(Ord. 5320, passed 3-21-1961; Ord. 5605, passed 3-21-1961)
§ 1501.99  PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months or both.
Each separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation of
any code provision adopted in this chapter by the municipality, or any order
issued pursuant to such code provisions, or any ordinance shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
      (2)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of any code
provision adopted in this chapter by the municipality, or any order issued
pursuant to it, and such violation is specifically determined not to be of a
serious nature, may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for
each such violation.
      (3)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued within the period permitted for its correction, may be assessed
a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each day during which such failure
or violation continues.
      (4)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements, as
prescribed by §
1501.04(c), shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each
violation.
      (5)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged, and the history of previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this chapter.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
      (7)   Civil penalties imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the
Director of Finance for deposit into the General Revenue Fund. Such penalties
may be recovered in a civil action in the name of the municipality brought in
the Court of Common Pleas.
   (c)   Fines.
      (1)   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may
execute and file with the Clerk of the city’s Municipal Court an instrument
waiving the formal issuance of an affidavit and warrant, together with the
reading of such affidavit and the right to be present personally at the trial
of such action, and further waiving the right of appeal in error, and
authorizing a plea of guilty to be entered and the defendant submitted to the
mercy of the Court.
         B.   Upon depositing with such Clerk the sum specified in division (c)
(2) below within 48 hours of the date of the citation, Sundays and legal
holidays excluded, or upon depositing the said sum plus an additional amount of
$10 after 48 hours from the date of the citation, Sundays and legal holidays
excluded, such person may be fined the aforesaid amounts by the Court. After
ten days from the date of the citation, Sundays and legal holidays excluded,
such person shall be subject to the general code penalty contained in divisions
(a) and (b) above.
      (2)   The following fines are hereby established as waiver amounts for
citations for violating the following provisions.
C A01 Accumulation of waste (outside) $50
C A02 Accumulation of waste (inside)  $50
C A03 Fire doors blocked open         $50
C A04 Bonfires                        $50
C A05 Vehicles in driveway            $50
C A06 Asphalt (tar) kettles           $50
C A07 Exit sign                       $50
C A08 Elevator warning signs          $50
C A09 Smoke detectors                 $50
C A10 Extinguishers                   $50
C A11 Hood systems                    $50
C A12 Outdoor grills                  $50
C A13 Fuel pump controls              $50
C A14 Blocked egressway               $50
C A15 Emergency escape windows locked $50
 
      (3)   Citations for violating the following provisions are not subject to
waiver.
C B01 Knox boxes              $100
C B02 Fire lane maintenance   $100
C B03 Extinguishers           $100
C C01 Exits locked or blocked $500
C C02 Elevator recall         $500
C C03 Standpipe testing       $500
C C04 Sprinkler testing       $500
C C05 Emergency lighting      $500
C C06 Alarm system            $500
C C07 Failure to comply       $500
 
(Ord. 46-07, passed 8-21-2007)
CHAPTER 1511:  OPEN BURNING
Section
1511.01   Definitions
1511.02   Relations to other prohibitions
1511.03   Open burning in restricted areas
1511.04   Permission from and notification to the state’s EPA
1511.05   Open burning, bonfires and recreational fires
 
1511.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Air pollution control, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3704
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Ch. 3745
   Permit to burn construction debris, see Ohio R.C. 3704.11(C)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Spreading fire through negligence, see Ohio R.C. 3737.62
§ 1511.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are as used in
Chapter 3745-19 of the Ohio Administrative Code and this chapter:
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE.  Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural or
livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings; garbage; dead animals; animal waste;
motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof,
unless the manufacturer has identified open burning as a safe disposal
procedure.
   BONFIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes.
   ECONOMIC POISONS.  Include, but are not restricted to, pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, initicides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
   GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
   LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial or industrial development. LAND CLEARING
WASTE also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE . Any plant waste material, except garbage, including trees,
tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, yard
trimmings and crop residues.
   STATE’S EPA.  The state’s Environmental Protection Agency Director or
agencies delegated authority by such Director pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3704.03 or
the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection Agency district office.
   OPEN BURNING.  The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. OPEN BURNING  includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of Ohio Administrative Code 3745-
17-09 or 3745-17-10.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE.  An outdoor fire, burning materials other than rubbish,
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit and has a total fuel area of three
feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and two feet (610 mm) or less in height for
pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes.
(O.A.C. 1301:7-7-03)
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste, generated
on a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result of residential
activities, but not including garbage.
   RESTRICTED AREA.  The area within the boundary of any municipal corporation
established in accordance with the provisions of Title 7 of the Ohio Revised
Code, plus a zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of any such
municipal corporation having a population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone
extending one mile beyond any such municipal corporation having a population of
10,000 persons or more according to the latest federal census.
   UNRESTRICTED AREA.  All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area as
defined above.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-01)
§ 1511.02  RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision in Ohio Administrative Code Chapter
3745-19, no open burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert,
warning or emergency under Ohio Administrative Code Chapter 3745-25 is in
effect.
   (b)   No provisions of Ohio Administrative Code Chapter 3745-19, permitting
open burning, and no permission to open burn granted by the state’s EPA, shall
exempt any person from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
any regulation of any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation
dealing with open burning.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-02)
§ 1511.03  OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (a)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (b) to (d) below, in Ohio R.C.
3704.11 and in compliance with §
1511.05 of this chapter.
   (b)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the state’s EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs;
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         A.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas, or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         B.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         C.   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to paragraph
(D)(1)(d) of Rule 3745-50-45 of the Ohio Administrative Code;
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention; and
      (5)   Fires allowed by divisions (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(4) above shall
not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum size sufficient
for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to minimize the generation
and emission of air contaminants.
   (c)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the state’s EPA in accordance with §
1511.04(b):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the state’s EPA from the local health department, cooperative
extension service, state’s Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method;
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (b)(2) above, provided the following conditions
are met:
         A.   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in diameter
by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         B.   They are not to be used for waste disposal purposes; and
         C.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         A.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         B.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
         C.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than 1,000
feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         D.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         E.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt or
liquid petroleum products.
   (d)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the state’s EPA, in accordance with §
1511.04(a), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the state’s EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (b)(3) above;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the
state’s Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National
Fire Protection Association’s (NAPA) publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures”, provided that the
application required in §
1511.04(a)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for
the instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to Rule 3745-19-03 of the Ohio Administrative Code. If deemed
necessary, the open burning may be authorized with prior oral approval by the
Director followed by the issuance of a written permission to open burn within
seven working days of the oral approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, range or wildlife
management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-03)
§ 1511.04  PERMISSION FROM AND NOTIFICATION TO THE STATE’S EPA.
   (a)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing at least ten working days before the fire is to be set. Saturday,
Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a working day. It shall be in
such form and contain such information as required by the state’s EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (a)(6) and (a)(7) below, such
applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         A.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         B.   The nature of quantities of material to be burned;
         C.   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         D.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         E.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the state’s EPA that open burning is
necessary to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner
as to minimize the emission of air contaminants; and will have no serious
detrimental effect upon adjacent properties or the occupants thereof. The
state’s EPA may impose such conditions as may be necessary to accomplish the
purpose of Chapter 3745-19 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (a)(6) below, permission to open
burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where public
health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay while
written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of the
state’s EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the state’s EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The state’s Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the state’s fire
academy’s mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training
sites in the state. The annual application required pursuant to division (a)(1)
above shall contain information as required in division (a)(2) above, except
the information required in divisions (a)(2)C. and (a)(2)D. above need not be
provided unless it is available at the time of submittal of the application.
The academy shall contact the appropriate state’s EPA district office or local
air agency at least five working days before each training session of the date
or dates when the training session will take place and its location. Saturday,
Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under §
1511.03(d)(2), permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the
applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to demolish received by
the appropriate state’s EPA field office in accordance with Rule 3745-20-03 of
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (b)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the state’s EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the state’s EPA regarding:
         A.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         B.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         C.   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         D.   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The state’s EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that
the open burning is not allowed under Chapter 3745-19 of the Administrative
Code and the state’s EPA shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-05)
§ 1511.05  OPEN BURNING, BONFIRES AND RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (a)   General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be
kindled or maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in
accordance with this section.
   (b)   Prohibited open burning. Open burning that is offensive or
objectionable because of smoke or odor emissions or when atmospheric conditions
or local circumstances make such fires hazardous shall be prohibited.
   (c)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the Fire Code
Official in accordance with Rule 1301:7-7-01 of the state’s Fire Code prior to
kindling a fire for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management
practices, prevention or control of disease or pests, or a bonfire. Application
for such approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of
the land upon which the fire is to be kindled.
   (d)   Authorization. Where required by state or local law or regulations,
open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from the state or
local air and water quality management authority, provided that all conditions
specified in the authorization are followed.
   (e)   Extinguishment authority. The Fire Code Official is authorized to
order the extinguishment by the permit holder, another person responsible or
the Fire Department of open burning that creates or adds to a hazardous or
objectionable situation.
   (f)   Location. The location for open burning shall not be less than 50 feet
(15,240 mm) from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the
fire from spreading to within 50 feet (15,240 mm) of any structure.
   (g)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet (4572
mm) from a structure; and
      (2)   The minimum required distance from a structure shall be 25 feet
(7,620 mm) where the pile size is three feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and
two feet (610 mm) or less in height.
         A.   Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet (15,240
mm) of a structure or combustible material unless the fire is contained in a
barbecue pit. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 50 feet
(15,240 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
         B.   Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be conducted
within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure or combustible material. Conditions
which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7,620 mm) of a structure
shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   (h)   Attendance. Open burning, bonfires or recreational fires shall be
constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable
fire extinguisher complying with paragraph (F)(906) of Rule 1301:7-7-09 of the
state’s Fire Code with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-
extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water
truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.
(O.A.C. 1301:7-7-03)
§ 1511.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 60 days, or both.
CHAPTER 1519:  FIREWORKS
Section
1519.01   Definitions
1519.02   Public exhibition permit required; fee; bond; records
1519.03   Unlawful conduct by exhibitor
1519.04   Possession, sale or discharge prohibited; exceptions
1519.05   Application
 
1519.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Arrests, seizure of fireworks by certified Fire Safety Inspector, see Ohio
R.C. 3743.68
   Conflict of Fire Marshal’s rules with rules of Ohio Board of Building
Standards, see Ohio R.C. 3781.11(D)
   Manufacturers to comply with building and zoning ordinances, see Ohio R.C.
3743.06(F)
   Wholesalers to comply with building and zoning ordinances, see Ohio R.C.
3743.19(G)
§ 1519.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP.  A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends, that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.01.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in §
1519.05.
      (1)   1.3 G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.3” in C.F.R. Title 49.
      (2)   1.4 G FIREWORKS.  Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.4” in C.F.R. Title 49.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS OR LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS OR LICENSED MANUFACTURER.  A person
licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to 3743.08.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS OR LICENSED WHOLESALER.  A person licensed
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.15 to 3743.21.
   NOVELTIES AND TRICK NOISEMAKERS.  Include the following items:
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including, but not limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER . A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition, that is ignited by
pulling string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant,
   SMOKE DEVICE.  A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE OR GLOW WORM.  A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small, paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand, and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   TRICK MATCH.  A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WIRE SPARKLER.  A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a non-
explosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 1519.02  PUBLIC EXHIBITION PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; BOND; RECORDS.
   (a)   (1)   A licensed exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition within the municipality shall apply for approval to
conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief and from the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or
similar chief law enforcement officer.
      (2)   The required approval shall be evidenced by the Fire Chief or Fire
Prevention Officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar chief law
enforcement officer, signing a permit for the exhibition, the form for which
shall be prescribed by the State Fire Marshal. Any exhibitor of fireworks who
wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy of the form
from the Fire Marshal or, if it is available, from the Fire Chief, Fire
Prevention Officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement
officer.
   (b)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of
such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect the
premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that, in
fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. Each
applicant shall show the applicant’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer. The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention
Officer and the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, shall
give approval to conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based
on the inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted
allow the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement
officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the exhibition to
determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may revoke the
permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (c)   (1)   The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, shall not issue a permit until
the applicant pays a permit fee of $25 plus any necessary costs of
investigation of the applicant and of inspecting the premises on which the
exhibition will be conducted.
      (2)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000, with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention
Officer and to Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer,
conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be rendered against
the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to persons or property
emanating from the fireworks exhibition, or proof of insurance coverage of at
least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death or loss to persons or
property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The Legislative Authority may
require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance
coverage in amounts greater than those required by this division (c). The Fire
Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law
enforcement officer, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the
bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this division (c).
   (d)   (1)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief
or Fire Prevention Officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law
enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified Fire Safety Inspector, Fire Chief or
Fire Prevention Officer who will be present before, during, and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the Fire Marshal, who
shall keep a record of the permits received. A permit is not transferable or
assignable.
      (2)   The Fire Chief, Fire Prevention Officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, Fire Prevention
Officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a
designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, shall
list the name of the exhibitor, the exhibitor’s license number, the premises on
which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition and
the number of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (e)   The governing authority having jurisdiction in the location where an
exhibition is to take place shall require that a certified Fire Safety
Inspector, Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified Fire Safety Inspector,
Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54)
§ 1519.03  UNLAWFUL CONDUCT BY EXHIBITOR.
   (a)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the Fire Marshal pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with divisions (C) and (D) of that
section.
   (b)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to §
1519.02 or if a permit so secured is revoked by the Fire Chief or Fire
Prevention Officer in consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement official or a designee of such Police Chief or other similar
law enforcement official pursuant to that section.
   (c)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with Ohio R.C. 3743.54 and
3743.55.
   (d)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (e)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64)
§ 1519.04  POSSESSION, SALE OR DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-state
resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55 and §
1519.02 and except as provided in §
1519.05.
   (b)   Except as provided in §
1519.05 and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a
fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55 and §
1519.02, no person shall discharge, ignite or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
   (c)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall, what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (d)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age.
   (e)   No person shall advertise 1.4 G fireworks for sale. A sign located on
a seller’s premises identifying the seller as a seller of fireworks is not the
advertising of fireworks for sale.
   (f)   No person, other than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler,
licensed exhibitor, or shipping permit holder, shall possess 1.3 G fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.65)
§ 1519.05  APPLICATION.
   This chapter does not prohibit or apply to the following:
   (a)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;
   (b)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (c)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals or for ceremonial purposes;
   (d)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or sale to the Armed Forces of the United States and the militia of this
state of pyrotechnic devices;
   (e)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive material are
used, provided that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into
contact with a cap when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the
manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (f)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;
   (g)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers; and
   (h)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges, provided that
the exhibition complies with all of following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 1519.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree for a first offense and shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than six months or both.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C))
CHAPTER 1525:  FIRE ALARM MONITORING SYSTEMS
Section
1525.01   Definitions
1525.02   Requirements to connect to fire alarm monitoring system
Cross-reference:
   False alarms, see §
509.07
§ 1525.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM.   A system or group of systems, the operation of
which is signaled to, recorded in, maintained and supervised from an approved
central station, in which there are competent and experienced observers and
operators in attendance at all times whose duty it shall be, upon receipt of a
signal, to take such action as shall be required under the rules established
for their guidance. Such systems are independently owned, controlled and
operated by a person, firm or corporation whose principal business is the
furnishing and maintaining of supervised protective signaling service and who
has no interest in the protected properties.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM.   That system producing signals at one or more places on
the premises served.
(Ord. 25-98, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 1525.02  REQUIREMENTS TO CONNECT TO FIRE ALARM MONITORING SYSTEM.
   (a)   All multi-family dwellings in excess of four stories.
   (b)   All establishments, both public and private, to which a fee is paid
for providing rest or nursing care for the elderly.
   (c)   All schools and public assembly buildings exceeding 5,000 square feet.
   (d)   All manufacturing, commercial and mercantile buildings in excess of
12,000 square feet total of all floors.
   (e)   All other buildings, dwellings or structures so determined in the
future by Council.
   (f)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new building
described in this section to comply, effective immediately.
   (g)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of all existing buildings
described in this section to comply, effective six months from the passage of
this section, and/or at the time of any change of ownership and/or occupancy,
whichever occurs first, effective immediately.
(Ord. 25-98, passed 3-17-1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
A.   FRANCHISES
      
B.   EASEMENTS
      
C.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
D.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
      
E.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
      
F.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
      
G.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
      
H.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
J.   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
TABLE A:  FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  2-3-   Cleveland Electric R.R. Co. to extend its double track street railroad in
19    1896   Euclid Ave.
Ord.  12-28- Cleveland Gas Light and Coke Co. to lay gas mains.
30    1896
Ord.  11-8-  Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. right to erect and maintain fixtures and
46    1897   appliances to transmit electricity.
Ord.  1-24-  Cleveland Telephone Co. right to erect and maintain telephone poles and
50    1898   wires.
Ord.  5-28-  Cuyahoga Telephone Co. right to erect and maintain telephone poles and wires.
147   1900
Ord.  7-16-  Lighting of NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR Co.
161   1900
Ord.  10-15- Lighting of NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR Co.; repeals Ord. 161.
178   1900
Ord.  3-21-  Lighting of NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR.
260   1904
Ord.  7-3-   Cleveland Telephone Co. right to establish underground conduits, fixtures,
297   1905   cables and wires.
Ord.  9-18-  East Ohio Gas Co. right to lay, operate and maintain gas mains and pipes.
315   1905
Ord.  5-7-   Establishes street car operation schedule pursuant to Ord. 19.
406   1908
Ord.  5-12-  Establishes street car operation schedule on Hayden Ave.
408   1908
Ord.  12-28- Cleveland Short Line RR Co. to lay, operate and maintain a railroad.
476   1909
Ord.  12-28- Elimination of certain grade crossings of NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR.
477   1909
Ord.  4-23-  Fixes East Ohio Gas Co. artificial gas rates until 2-6-1921.
709   1912
Ord.  4-23-  Fixes East Ohio Gas. Co. natural gas rates until 2-6-1921.
710   1912
Ord.  8-26-  East Ohio Gas Co. right to increase distribution of natural gas.
791   1913
Ord.  12-17- Cleveland RR Co. right to lay tracks on Superior St.
809   1913
Ord.  3-20-  Eliminates grade crossing of NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR at Ivanhoe Rd.
936   1916
Ord.  9-5-   J.L. Free right to operate a street railroad in Noble Rd.
990   1916
Ord.  6-18-  Cleveland RR Co. right to construct track extensions in certain streets.
1039  1917
Ord.  8-20-  Cleveland RR Co. right to construct track extensions in certain streets.
1048  1917
Ord.  5-6-   Cleveland RR Co. to maintain and operate street railroad in Hayden Ave.
1087  1918
Ord.  6-10-  Releases restrictions on land imposed by Ord. 476 Sec. 3.
1204  1919
Ord.  1-3-   East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas rates for ten years.
1437  1921
Ord.  1-3-   East Ohio Gas Co. fixes artificial gas rates for one year.
1438  1921
Ord.  10-18- East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas prices until 6-30-1924.
1532  1921
Ord.  12-27- East Ohio Gas Co. fixes artificial gas prices for one year.
1541  1921
Ord.  11-10- East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas prices for three years.
1643  1922
Ord.  4-10-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. right to operate underground conduits, poles,
1711  1923   fixtures, cables and wires.
Ord.  6-26-  Cleveland RR Co. right to construct and maintain St. RR in Superior Ave.
1741  1923
Ord.  9-11-  East Ohio Gas Co. fixes artificial gas rates until 4-30-1926.
1746  1923
Ord.  7-28-  Amends Ord. 477 regarding grade crossing elimination.
1994  1925
Ord.  11-10- East Ohio Gas Co. regulates natural gas rates until 4-30-1928.
2020  1925
Ord.  12-6-  Modifies restrictions contained in Ord. 476 Sec. 3.
2292  1927
Ord.  3-28-  East Ohio Gas Co., amends Ord. 2020 regarding natural gas rates.
2313  1928
Ord.  6-5-   NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to construct and maintain additional tracks.
2327  1928
Ord.  6-5-   NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to construct and maintain additional tracks.
2328  1928
Ord.  7-10-  East Ohio Gas Co., amends Ord. 2313 regarding natural gas rates.
2338  1928
Ord.  9-25-  East Ohio Gas Co., amends Ord. 2338 regarding natural gas rates.
2364  1928
Ord.  12-4-  Amends Ord. 2328 regarding additional railroad tracks.
2370  1928
Ord.  7-30-  NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to construct a side track across Woodworth Rd.
2453  1929
Ord.  1-14-  NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR, amends Ord. 2327 regarding additional railroad
2490  1930   tracks.
Ord.  9-16-  East Ohio Gas Co., amends Ord. 2364 regarding natural gas rates.
2573  1930
Ord.  12-13- East Ohio Gas Co., regulates natural gas rates to 12-31-1937.
2755  1932
Ord.  12-4-  East Ohio Gas Co., amends Ord. 2755 regarding natural gas rates to 12-31-
2892  1934   1937.
Ord.  9-26-  East Ohio Gas Co. regulates price of natural gas.
3475  1939
Ord.  12-19- Terminates right of Cleveland RR Co. to operate street RR in Superior Ave.
3510  1939   from Euclid Ave. to westerly city limits.
Ord.  11-18- NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR authorizes switch track across Woodworth Ave.
3690  1941
Ord.  6-29-  East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas rates.
3897  1944
Ord.  7-13-  East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas rates to July 1952.
4270  1948
Ord.  2-27-  Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. fixes residential and general commercial
4527  1951   rates.
Ord.  11-20- Assignment by NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to Cleveland Transit Board of
4592  1951   rights and obligations.
Ord.  8-12-  East Ohio Gas Co., fixes natural gas rates to December 1956.
4659  1952
Ord.  6-26-  East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas rates to 7-19-1960.
4954  1956
Ord.  12-30- East Ohio Gas Co. fixes natural gas prices to 12-31-1963.
5219  1959
Ord.  12-26- Cuyahoga Disposal Inc. and Glenwillow Landfill, Inc. for solid waste removal.
6670  1974
Ord.  1-14-  Amends Ord. 6670.
6681  1975
Ord.  7-22-  Glenwillow Landfill, Inc. and Inland Refuse Transfer Co. for solid waste
6751  1975   removal.
Ord.  10-21- TBA Inc. for construction, operation and maintenance of cable television
7445  1980   system for a period of 15 years.
Ord.  4-3-   Amends Ord. 7745 regarding cable television system franchise granted to TBA,
7718  1984   Inc.
Ord.  9-16-  Telerama, Inc. for a cable television system at several addresses on Forest
7842  1986   Hills Blvd. for nine years.
Ord.  5-5-   Telerama, Inc. for a cable television system at several addresses on Forest
7880  1987   Hills Blvd. for nine years.
Ord.  9-1-   Telerama, Inc. for a cable television system at several addresses on Forest
7895  1987   Hills Blvd. for nine years.
Ord.  2-6-   Grants franchise to I-Star Communications, Inc. for cable television system
4-90  1990   for 15 years.
Ord.  8-21-  Amends Ord. 7445 pertaining to franchise agreement between city and TBA, Inc.
71-90 1990
Ord.  9-5-   Grants to TBA, Inc. a renewed franchise for ten years for cable television
57-95 1995   system.
Ord.  7-30-  Approves service agreement between I-Star Communications Corp. and
52-96 1996   Cablevision; amends Ord. 4-90.
Ord.  12-16- Authorizes transfer of TBA, Inc. Cable TV and Communications, LLC. (ECC).
98-97 1997
Ord.  8-16-  Grants Cleveland Public Power a franchise to construct distribution
47-11 2011   facilities in the city.
Ord.  11-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the county’s Soil and
16-16 2016   Water Conservation District in implementing conservation measures.
Ord.  11-10- Authorizing the Mayor to entering a contract with OHM Advisors for the
17-16 2016   preparation of a storm water management plan.
Ord.  2-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with OHM Advisors to assist in
01-18 2018   enforcing the storm water management plan.
Ord.  2-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to continue services of the county’s Soil and Water
02-18 2018   Conservation District for conservation measures.
Ord.  7-17-  Establishing an opt- out option for natural gas customers.
12-18 2018
 
TABLE B:  EASEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  11-30- Frederick King to extend a switch track across Doan St.
29    1896
Ord.  10-23- Cleveland RR Co., right to construct poles along Superior St.
748   1912
Ord.  6-17-  Appropriation for sewer through lands of Cuyahoga Coal Co.
1860  1924
Ord.  7-17-  Purchase from Cuyahoga Coal Co.
1862  1924
Ord.  8-12-  Appropriation for storm and sanitary sewer through Gebauer property.
1998  1925
Ord.  3-5-   Purchase from Gebauer for storm and sanitary sewer.
2083  1926
Ord.  3-1-   Release to Cuyahoga Coal Co.
2214  1927
Ord.  9-13-  Appropriation from Screngi for storm sewer.
2269  1927
Ord.  9-13-  Purchase from C.H. Covifi for Shaw Brook sewer.
2274  1927
Ord.  9-13-  Purchase from Hasson and Swirsky for Shaw Brook sewer.
2275  1927
Ord.  1-15-  Vacating easements conveyed by Swift for sewers across property now owned by
2378  1929   East Cleveland Lumber Co.
Ord.  4-23-  Relief sewer from Elm Ave. at Shaw- View Ave. to Alder Ave. at Dover Court.
2403  1929
Ord.  5-7-   Purchase to widen Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Glynn Rd.
2412  1929
Ord.  5-21-  Purchase from May Quinby to widen Lee Rd.
2415  1929
Ord.  6-4-   Appropriation from Weisenbach for storm sewer.
2427  1929
Ord.  6-4-   Purchase from E.S. Gunton (formerly E.S. Cody) for storm sewer; repeals Ord.
2428  1929   2408.
Ord.  2-10-  Quit-claim deed for storm sewer through Sublot 10.
2598  1931
Ord.  12-29- Cleveland Trust Co. to use certain land for driveway purposes only.
2687  1931
Ord.  8-23-  With NYC RR for storm sewer along right-of-way from Pontiac St. to Lakefront
2735  1932   Ave.
Ord.  6-6-   With John D. Rockefeller Jr. to construct a water main.
2792  1933
Ord.  6-20-  To City of Cleveland to construct a water main along Terrace Rd. and other
2794  1933   streets.
Ord.  9-12-  To City of Cleveland for water main in proposed Terrace Rd. between Nela and
2812  1933   Hillside Aves.
Ord.  5-5-   Purchase from Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. for street purposes at SE corner of Eddy
3070  1936   Rd. and Hayden Ave.
Ord.  4-20-  To construct storm sewer in portions of E. 134th St., St. Clair Ave. and
3220  1937   Woodworth Ave. located in Cleveland.
Ord.  11-30- Purchase from Long, Frederick and Sumner for sewer purposes.
3281  1937
Ord.  11-30- Purchase from Victoreen and Fricke for sewer purposes.
3282  1937
Ord.  2-23-  Purchase from Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. for sewer purposes.
3318  1938
Ord.  8-7-   Supplemental agreement with Beer for sewer across Sublots 479 and 480 of
3580  1940   Berwald-Stewart Co.’s Colonial Hts. Subdivision No. 4.
Ord.  11-18- To NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to maintain sidetrack to property south of
3691  1941   Woodworm Rd. and north of Collamer St.
Ord.  9-19-  From Edgecliff Housing Corp. for water main in part of Original Twp. Lots 382
3911  1944   and 390.
Ord.  12-26- From Madorsky for water main in Sublot 183 in Knight and Richardson’s Euclid
3936  1944   Ave. Subdivision.
Ord.  12-26- From Forest Hills Terrace Co. for water main in part of Original Twp. Lots 382
3937  1944   and 5.
Ord.  5-3-   Supplemental agreement for sewer and water main with Forest Hills - Terrace
4432  1950   Co. (auth. by Ord. 3937); repeals Ord. 4384.
Ord.  10-31- From Tait for sewer.
4487  1950
Ord.  12-11- Transfer of easements between city and General Electric Co.
4997  1956
Ord.  5-7-   Cleveland Hts. to construct storm and sanitary sewers in Caledonia Ave.
5035  1957
Ord.  1-12-  Appropriation for a culvert to convey storm water of Stanwood Creek.
5228  1960
Ord.  5-4-   Purchase from Wendell for underground lines to convey storm water from
5254  1960   Stanwood Creek.
Ord.  5-17-  Purchase from Beatty for underground lines to convey storm water from Stanwood
5358  1960   Creek.
Ord.  2-27-  City to construct storm sewer in Cleveland portion of Woodworth Rd. to Nine
5380  1962   Mile Creek.
Ord.  8-23-  From General Electric Co. for highway purposes.
5756  1966
Ord.  7-12-  From Ford Leasing Development Co. for highway purposes.
5742  1966
Ord.  12-17- To Wm. J. Kraus, Trustee for access to Terrace Rd.
5943  1968
Ord.  4-22-  Purchase from Cleveland Trust Co., trustee for underground pipe lines and
5985  1969   mains conveying storm water in Stanwood Creek.
Ord.  6-15-  Abandons certain easements within and under Allegheny Ave.
6265  1971
Ord.  6-24-  From City of Cleveland for traffic control actuator loop.
6742  1975
Ord.  3-16-  Abandons certain easements located within and under portions of Hayden,
6840  1976   Savannah, Potomac, Milan, Hartford, Orinoco and Strathmore Aves.
Ord.  1-3-   With Ohio Bell Telephone Co. for installation of telephone equipment at Noble
7114  1978   Rd. and Euclid Ave.
Ord.  3-20-  14615 Dover Ave. from Willie and Dorothy Finney to eliminate flooding
7269  1979   conditions.
Ord.  3-20-  14700 Alder Ave. from Saundra Reese to eliminate flooding conditions.
7270  1979
Ord.  5-1-   14627 Elm Ave. from James E. and Mary Goode to eliminate flooding conditions.
7288  1979
Ord.  6-19-  From the Northeastern Ohio Growers Co-Operative Assoc., Inc. for the Elm Ave.
7312  1979   sewer project.
Ord.  10-5-  Air rights over RTA parking lot to ensure redevelopment construction.
7594  1982
Ord.  2-21-  To Ohio Bell Telephone Co. for installation of telephone equipment.
7712  1984
Ord.  8-13-  Amends Ord. 7712 regarding telephone equipment installation.
7790  1985
Res.  3-31-  Authorizes release of easements for terminated project of the city and
34-92 1992   Superior Homes for Every Man, Inc.
Ord.  3-16-  Authorizes grant of easement to Ohio Bell Telephone Co., on property at 1663
22-93 1993   E. 133rd. St.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent easement between city and Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
93-95 1995   District for Permanent Parcel No. 671-02-140, on corner of E. 133rd and Mann
             Ave.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
94-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel 671-01-194 on corner of E. 133rd
             and Mann Ave.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
95-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel No. 671-05-048 on corner of E.
             133rd St. and Fourth Ave.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
96-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel No. 671-06-030 on corner of E.
             133rd St. and Fourth Ave.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
97-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel No. 671-01-017 on corner of
             Woodworm Rd. and E. 133rd St.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
98-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel No. 672-10-003 at 1750 Eddy Rd.
Ord.  9-25-  Authorizes permanent and temporary easement between city and Northeast Ohio
99-95 1995   Regional Sewer District for Permanent Parcel No. 672-28-003 on southeast
             corner of Terrace Rd. and Forest Hills Blvd.
Ord.  2-6-   Authorizes permanent easement between city and Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
6-96  1996   District for Permanent Parcel No. 672-28-03.
Ord.  2-6-   Authorizes easement agreement between city and Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
7-96  1996   District for Permanent Parcel Nos. 672-26-83 and 672-26-105 on corner of Mont
             Rd. and Coventry Ave.
Ord.  11-18- Accepting grant of easement for constructing and maintaining underground water
79-97 1997   services across the property of the Board of County Commissioners.
Ord.  11-18- Accepting grant of easement for constructing and maintaining underground water
80-97 1997   services across the property of Edward J. Randle and Val Jean Randle.
Ord.  11-18- Accepting easement for constructing and maintaining underground water services
81-97 1997   across the property of the A.M. McGregor Home.
Res.  4-30-  To S.S. Dickson in property on Shaw Ave. in connection with the purchase of
73-02 2002   property at 701 E. 131st St.
Res.  10-2-  Authorizes grant of easement to Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District with
74-07 2007   respect to Eddy Rd. (P.P.N. 672-10-003) for Dugway East Interceptor Relief
             Sewer Project.
 
TABLE C:  VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./    Date      Description
Res. No. Passed
Ord. 228 9-15-1902 Part of Wadena St.
Ord. 229 9-15-1902 Savannah, Potomac, Kennebec and Scioto Aves.
Ord. 478 12-28-    Part of Phillips St.
         1909
Ord. 479 12-28-    Portion of Pontiac St.
         1909
Ord. 480 12-28-    Part of Lake Front Ave.
         1909
Ord. 481 12-28-    Part of Woodworth Rd.
         1909
Ord. 482 12-28-    Part of Strathmore Ave.
         1909
Ord. 483 12-28-    Part of Shaw Ave.
         1909
Ord. 484 12-28-    Part of Eddy Rd.
         1909
Ord. 497 4-26-1910 Part of Manhattan Ave.
Ord. 602 3-14-1911 Part of Hayden Ave.
Ord. 642 7-25-1911 Part of Superior St.
Ord. 643 7-25-1911 Amends Ord. 642.
Ord. 753 11-26-    Portion of Pontiac St.
         1912
Ord. 825 4-20-1914 Florence Ct. in Striebinger’s Allotment.
Ord.     12-20-    Part of Sublot 368 in Friebie Co.’s Windermere Subdivision
1004     1916      No.
Ord.     7-25-1918 L. Plymouth Place.
1113
Ord.     7-5-1922  Part of Manhattan Ave.
1602
Ord.     9-26-1922 Portion of Terrace Rd.
1635
Ord.     4-24-1923 Glen Place and a part of Nela Ave.
1715
Ord.     5-5-1925  Portion of Sheldon Rd.
1971
Ord.     6-16-1925 Portion of Lee Rd.
1983
Ord.     4-27-1926 Part of Oakhill Rd.
2107
Ord.     4-27-1926 Part of Stanwood Rd.
2111
Ord.     6-22-1926 Portion of Oakhill Rd.
2120
Ord.     9-14-1926 Finley Place part of 12-foot alley from Finley Place to Shaw
2145               Place.
Ord.     7-30-1929 Cobden Ct.
2450
Ord.     8-19-1929 Seven foot strip on each side of Ravine Dr.
2459
Ord.     5-27-1930 Portion of Terrace Rd. east of Knowles St.
2529
Ord.     11-5-1930 Repeals Ord. 2529 regarding portion of Terrace Rd.
2577
Ord.     11-5-1930 Portion of Terrace Rd. east of Knowles St.
2579
Ord.     12-2-1930 Wymore St. from Terrace Rd. to southeasterly end of Wymore
2590               St.
Ord.     1-28-1936 Forest Hill Blvd. from Lee Rd. to Euclid Ave.
3019
Ord.     9-23-1941 Portion of westerly side of Stanwood Rd.
3675
Ord.     12-16-    Portion of Woodworth Rd.
3701     1941
Ord.     8-28-1951 Parts of Hillside Ave. from Euclid Ave. 299 ft.
4569               southeasterly therefrom.
Ord.     8-28-1951 Five-foot strip extending from Terrace Rd. at a point
4571               opposite Grasmere Ave. to Grandview Ter.
Ord.     5-7-1952  Part of Fay St.; quit claim deed to Cleveland Transit
4646               System.
Ord.     11-18-    Part of Bryn Mawr Rd.; quit claim deed to Cleveland Transit
4683     1952      System.
Ord.     11-18-    Part of Amherst St.; quit claim deed to Cleveland Transit
4684     1952      System.
Ord.     7-31-1953 Portion of Elderwood Ave. lying NE of Noble Rd.
4733
Ord.     10-6-1953 Parts of Ammon Rd. between Euclid Ave. and easterly city
4750               limits; repeals Ord. 4570.
Ord.     12-28-    Part of Hartshorn Rd; quit claim deed to Cleveland Transit
4838     1954      System; repeals Ord. 4624.
Ord.     6-12-1956 Portions of Striebinger and Torno Courts.
4947
Ord.     8-25-1959 Portions of Hayden Ave.
5200
Ord.     6-5-1962  Portion of Grandview Ter.
5395
Ord.     2-26-1963 Shaw Ave. between Euclid Ave. and Terrace Rd.
5456
Ord.     6-15-1971 Allegheny Ave. between Doan and Bardwell Aves.
6266
Ord.     7-27-1971 Vassar St. within Huron Rd. Hospital property.
6281
Ord.     3-30-1976 Portion of Hayden Ave. for Hayden Ave. Neighborhood
6842               Development Project, No. Ohio A-1.
 
TABLE D:  DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  7-1-   Dedication of Windermere St.
9     1895
Ord.  10-28- Dedication of Chapman Ave.
16    1895
Ord.  10-28- Dedication of Page Ave.
17    1895
Ord.  10-28- Dedication of Wymore Ave.
18    1895
Ord.  9-21-  Dedication of Knowles St. and Windermere Ter.
26    1896
Ord.  11-30- Dedication of Fernwood Ave., Wellesley St. and Vassar St.
28    1896
Ord.  12-28- Dedication of Lake Front Ave. between Euclid and Hayden Aves., and Hayden Ave.
31    1896   between Lake Front Ave. and north Twp. line.
Ord.  2-8-   Dedication of Andrews St.
36    1897
Ord.  2-14-  Dedication of Strathmore Ave.
52    1898
Ord.  3-28-  Dedication of Lockwood Ave.
60    1898
Ord.  6-20-  Dedication of Brightwood St.
72    1898
Ord.  6-20-  Dedication of Cobden Ct.
73    1898
Ord.  8-1-   Dedication of Penrose St.
76    1898
Ord.  8-22-  Dedication of Grasmere St., Terrace Rd. between Prospect St. and Chapman’s
79    1898   Subdivision, and Stanwood Rd. between Euclid Ave. and Terrace Rd.
Ord.  10-13- Dedication of Auburndale Ave.
87    1898
Ord.  6-12-  Dedication of Holyoke Ave. between Euclid and Hayden Ave.
101   1899
Ord.  7-10-  Dedication of Stanwood Rd. south from Terrace Rd. and Grandview Ter.
103   1899
Ord.  7-10-  Dedication of Fay St. from Euclid Ave. to NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR.
104   1899
Ord.  12-4-  Dedication of Allandale Ave.
124   1899
Ord.  1-8-   Dedication of Windermere Ter. extension.
126   1900
Ord.  6-25-  Dedication of Elberon Ave. from Euclid to Hower Aves.
151   1900
Ord.  10-1-  Dedication of Hower Ave. on Plat of Carter and Stegkemper Allotment.
177   1900
Ord.  11-19- Dedication of Idlewood Ave., Rosalind Ave. and part of Mildred Ave. in the
183   1900   Windermere Realty Co. Allotment.
Ord.  3-11-  Dedication of Lake Front Ave. from Hayden Ave. to Eddy Rd.
189   1901
Ord.  11-11- Dedication of Wadena St.
209   1901
Ord.  12-9-  Dedication of Rosemont Rd.
210   1901
Ord.  2-24-  Dedication of Marloes Ave. and Dartmoor St.
212   1902
Ord.  6-30-  Dedication of Beersford Place.
224   1902
Ord.  10-27- Dedication of Northfield St. between Euclid Ave. and NY, Chicago and St. Louis
232   1902   RR.
Ord.  3-23-  Dedication of Elsinore St. from NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to Hayden Ave.
236   1903
Ord.  5-1-   Dedication of Carlyon Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Superior St.
294   1905
Ord.  5-22-  To straighten a portion of Taylor Rd.
296   1905
Ord.  10-18- Accepting Roxbury Rd. and Mildred St. as extended through Quayle and White’s
317   1905   Subdivision.
Ord.  11-20- Dedication of Mississippi, Missouri, Orinoco, Savannah, Potomac, Kennebec,
321   1905   Scioto, Allegheny and Manhattan Aves.
Ord.  2-4-   Dedication of N. Lockwood Ave.
361   1907
Ord.  9-16-  Dedication of Rozelle Ave.
389   1907
Ord.  10-21- Dedication of Charles Rd.
392   1907
Ord.  11-18- Dedication of Emily St.
397   1907
Ord.  3-24-  Dedication of Pontiac St.
404   1908
Ord.  8-24-  Dedication of Highland Park Ave., Hillside Ave., Kirke Place and Glen Place.
457   1909
Ord.  3-8-   Plat of Belt and Terminal Realty Co. for diversion of part of Phillips St.
487   1910
Ord.  5-12-  Dedication of Eastham Ave., Elderwood Rd. and Eastham Place.
500   1910
Ord.  6-28-  Dedication of Melbourne Rd. and Carlyon Rd. north of Superior St.
520   1910
Ord.  10-11- Dedication of Northfield St. extension to Manhattan Ave. by NY, Chicago and St.
562   1910   Louis RR.
Ord.  10-11- Dedication of part of Doan Ave. by NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR.
563   1910
Ord.  10-11- Dedication of parcel fronting on westerly side of Shaw Ave. by NY, Chicago and
564   1910   St. Louis RR.
Ord.  11-9-  Dedication for relocation of Eddy Rd. by Cleveland Short Line RR. Co., Inez
569   1910   Phillips and City of Cleveland.
Ord.  11-9-  Dedication for diversion of Lake Front Ave. by Cleveland Short Line RR Co.
571   1910
Ord.  1-24-  Dedication of Alder Ave. by the Amber Realty Co. et al.
592   1911
Ord.  1-24-  Dedication of Elm Ave. by E. Leslie et al.
593   1911
Ord.  3-14-  Dedication for widening and relocation of Hayden Ave.
603   1911
Ord.  6-27-  Dedication of Sheldon Ave.
636   1911
Ord.  7-25-  Dedication of Alvason Rd.
640   1911
Ord.  7-25-  Plat of Rockefeller for alteration of Superior St.
642   1911
Ord.  7-25-  Amends Ord. 642.
643   1911
Ord.  9-12-  Dedication of Roxford Rd. by Bingham.
655   1911
Ord.  10-10- Dedication of Farmington Rd.
668   1911
Ord.  11-28- Dedication to widen Woodworth Rd. by Belt and Terminal Realty Co. and the
674   1911   Cleveland Short Line RR Co.
Ord.  12-19- Dedication of part of Forest Hill Ave.
677   1911
Ord.  11-26- Plat of Berwald-Steward Co. Subdivision; dedication of 133rd St., 134th St.,
754   1912   135th St. and Hartford Rd.
Ord.  12-9-  Dedication of Beaumont St. and E. 139th St.
804   1913
Ord.  12-30- Dedication of Allegheny Ave. extension.
812   1913
Ord.  4-20-  Dedication of Guilford Rd.
822   1914
Ord.  1-4-
870-  1915   Dedication of Hayden Ave. from Eddy Rd. as extended to Phillips St.
1/2
Ord.  4-3-   Dedication of part of Twp. Lots 43 and 44 from E. 152nd St. to NY, Chicago and
941   1916   St. Louis RR.
Ord.  4-3-   Dedication of part of Twp. Lot 3, Doan Tract from Wemple Rd. to E. 152nd St.
942   1916
Ord.  4-3-   Dedication of Bryn Mawr Rd.
943   1916
Ord.  6-5-   Extension of Bryn Mawr Rd.
965   1916
Ord.  6-18-  Plat of Stone and Thompson’s N. Noble Rd. Allotment.
1038  1917
Ord.  7-2-   Dedication of part of Original Twp. Lot 5 by Rockefeller.
1040  1917
Ord.  11-5-  Dedication of N. Carlyon Rd.
1059  1917
Ord.  2-19-  Dedication of Burnette Ave. and Terrace Rd. in Crawford Realty Co’s. Euclid
1075  1918   Burnette Subdivision.
             Plats of Amber Realty Co’s. Euclid-Shaw Allotment, Euclid-Noble Development
Ord.  5-14-  Co’s. Subdivision No. 1, Adam Graham Subdivision, O.G. Deming’s Euclid-Hayden
1095  1918   Allotment, Berwald Steward Co’s. Colonial Hts. Subdivision No. 4, and J.W.
             Love’s Panoramic View Allotment No. 2.
Ord.  7-25-  Plat of Plymouth Realty and Investment Co’s. Plymouth Place Allotment.
1114  1918
Ord.  11-26- Dedication of N. Taylor Rd. in Euclid-Coit Realty Co’s. Subdivision.
1144  1918
Ord.  4-9-   Plat of Euclid-Noble Development Co’s. Subdivision No. 1; dedication of
1184  1919   Helmsdale Ave., Nela View Ave., Grayton Rd. and Nela Ct.
Ord.  7-1-   Plat of Rapid Transit Land Co’s. Subdivision No. 7; dedication of Glenmont Rd.,
1209  1919   Belmar Rd. and Mont Ave.
Ord.  1-6-   Plat of Residential Co’s. Shaw-View Allotment.
1287  1920
Ord.  3-9-   Plat of Adams Realty Co’s. Subdivision No. 4; dedication of Thornhill Dr.
1312  1920
Ord.  8-3-   Plat of Dodge Subdivision being a resubdivision of Sublots 9 and 10 in Adams
1380  1920   and Burton Subdivision.
Ord.  2-8-   Dedication of Caledonia Ave.
1447  1921
Ord.  3-8-   Plat of H.J. Baker Subdivision; dedication of Shaw Place, Finley Place and a 12
1452  1921   foot alley.
Ord.  3-25-  Plat of S.H. Kleinman Realty Co’s. Taylor Park Allotment.
1801  1924
Ord.  7-28-  Dedication of Glynn Rd.
1993  1925
Ord.  10-27- Plat of C.J. Phypher’s Ravine Park Subdivision.
2009  1925
Ord.  12-1-  Dedication of land purchased from Adams Realty Co. as Carlyon Rd. extension.
2027  1925
Ord.  5-28-  Execution of dedication plat of Belvoir Blvd.
2325  1928
Ord.  8-19-  Dedication of Braxton Rd., Laurel Rd., Mt. Vernon Blvd., Wyatt Rd., Fenemore
2462  1929   Rd., Henley Rd., Cleviden Rd., Northvale Blvd., Walden Rd. and Forest Hills
             Blvd.
Ord.  4-8-   Plat for extensions of Hillsboro and Endora Rds. to northerly city limits.
2516  1930
Ord.  5-6-   Supplemental agreement to Ord. 2325 re-establishment of Belvoir Blvd.
2521  1930
Ord.  3-10-  Dedication of extensions of Hillsboro and Endora Rds.
2604  1931
Ord.  9-30-  Dedication of Forest Hills Blvd. from Euclid Ave. to Lee Blvd.
2976  1935
Ord.  9-30-  Dedication of Terrace Rd. from Superior Rd. to Belmore Rd.
2977  1935
Ord.  1-28-  Dedication of Terrace Rd. at intersection of Forest Hills Blvd.
3020  1936
Ord.  1-28-  Dedication of Forest Hills Blvd. from Euclid Ave. to Lee Blvd.
3021  1936
Ord.  3-24-  Dedication of 13-foot strip on NW side of Terrace Rd. from Belmore Rd. 382 ft.
3046  1936   SW.
Ord.  6-1-   Dedication of Hillsboro Rd. extension between Euclid Ave. and 57.08 ft. SE of
3235  1937   Endora Rd.
Ord.  9-20-  Dedication of parcel on SE turnout of Shaw Ave. and E. 133rd St.
3366  1938
Ord.  4-3-   Demand on NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR for right- of-way for N. Noble Rd.
3543  1940   extension.
Ord.  3-24-  Plat for record only for realignment of N. Noble Rd. and Woodworm Ave. for NY,
3725  1942   Chicago and St. Louis RR underpass.
Ord.  11-7-  Dedication of parcel at SW turnout of Manhattan and Shaw Aves.
4073  1946
Ord.  9-28-  Dedication of land on NE corner of Euclid Ave. and Noble Rd.
4288  1948
Ord.  12-28- Dedication of parcel from Eddy Rd. NE 204 ft. to Hartshorn Rd.
4839  1954
Ord.  4-3-   Dedication of an addition to Emily St.
4931  1956
Ord.  1-15-  Dedication of parcel at NW corner of Garfield Rd. and Lambert St.
5005  1957
Ord.  8-25-  Dedication of certain property on Hayden Ave. for use as a public street.
5200  1959
Ord.  4-19-  Dedication of parcel from intersection of Wymore and Elderwood Aves., 120 ft.
5250  1960   SW therefrom.
Ord.  8-23-  Dedication of Emily St. extension.
5755  1966
Ord.  9-20-  Plat of General Electric Co. and dedication of street at NW corner of Helmsdale
5763  1966   and Noble Rds.
Ord.  9-20-  Dedication of parcel at NW corner of Stanwood and Terrace Rds.
5764  1966
Ord.  8-10-  Accepts ten-foot strip along Terrace Rd. for street purposes.
6285  1971
Ord.  11-13- Approving a plat for record and dedicating Allegheny Circle and a portion of
6526  1973   Allegheny Ave.
Ord.  3-16-  Accepts plat for dedication of Hayden Ave. and Claiborne-Hartford Connector.
6838  1976
Ord.  5-1-   Approves Davis Consolidation Plat at Euclid and Doan Aves. for development.
7722  1984
Ord.  5-8-   Approves Terrace-Taylor Estates Subdivision Plat at Taylor and Terrace Rds. for
7776  1985   development.
Ord.  9-17-  Approves Superior Service Corp. Consolidation plat at 13605 and 13613 Euclid
7798  1985   Ave. for development.
Ord.  2-4-   Approves Narmac Inc. Consolidation plat at 13705 and 13721 Euclid Ave. for
7817  1986   development.
 
TABLE E:  ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  5-16-  Reconveyance to Hanks, Beers, Creighton and Spruce of certain land previously
71    1898   conveyed to the village to widen Euclid Ave.
Ord.  6-22-  Appropriation to extend Strathmore Ave.
245   1903
Ord.  12-3-  Appropriation to widen Euclid Ave. between Prospect St. and Taylor Rd.
355   1906
Ord.  4-1-   Authorizes sale of seven acres on north side of Woodlawn Ave.
363   1907
Ord.  10-14- Appropriation to widen Hayden Ave. between Scioto and Shaw Aves.
471   1909
Ord.  3-8-   Appropriation to divert Phillips St.
488   1910
Ord.  4-12-  Appropriation to extend Wierfield St.
491   1910
Ord.  1-10-  Appropriation to create and open Alder Ave.
586   1911
Ord.  1-10-  Appropriation to create and open Elm Ave.
587   1911
Ord.  2-14-  Appropriation to widen Hayden Ave.
599   1911
Ord.  2-14-  Purchase to relocate and widen Hayden Ave.
600   1911
Ord.  4-12-  Appropriation to widen Hayden Ave.
614   1911
Ord.  7-11-  Appropriation to widen Superior St.
638   1911
Ord.  7-25-  Appropriation to widen Superior St.
641   1911
Ord.  9-26-  Appropriation to widen Superior St.
660   1911
Ord.  10-24- Appropriation to extend Allegheny Ave.
672   1911
Ord.  4-14-  Purchase to extend Strathmore Ave. into Missouri Ave.
717   1912
Ord.  10-22- Appropriation to widen Noble Rd.
747   1912
Ord.  12-24- Land purchase from Board of Education.
757   1912
Ord.  11-18- Sale of part of Sublot 1148 on Scioto Ave., being part of Frisbie Co’s.
794   1913   Windermere Subdivision No. 3.
Ord.  12-9-  Purchase from Quinby to alter Lee Rd.
797   1913
Ord.  12-9-  Purchase for playground and park purposes on Eddy Rd.
805   1913
Ord.  12-9-  Purchase to extend Allegheny Ave.
806   1913
Ord.  12-9-  Purchase to widen Doan Ave. approach into Hayden Ave.
808   1913
Ord.  12-23- Purchase to extend Cobden Ct.
810   1913
Ord.  4-3-   Purchase to extend Terrace Rd.
946   1916
Ord.  10-1-  Exchange of property for Terrace Rd. extension.
1051  1917
Ord.  5-28-  Appropriation to extend Terrace Rd.
1096  1918
Ord.  11-26- Warranty deed conveyance to John D. Rockefeller.
1142  1918
Ord.  6-10-  Purchase to extend Terrace Rd.
1208  1919
Ord.  7-1-   Purchase from A.E. Sherwood for Service Department use.
1211  1919
Ord.  7-22-  Quit claim deed to Charles McQuire for a property transfer.
1223  1919
Ord.  9-2-   Appropriation to extend Terrace Rd.
1234  1919
Ord.  9-16-  Accepts Seabrook deed for Terrace Rd. extension.
1246  1919
Ord.  9-16-  Accepts Dustin deed for Terrace Rd. extension.
1247  1919
Ord.  2-17-  Appropriation to extend Elm Ave. between E. 141st St. and Hayden Ave.
1301  1920
Ord.  5-11-  Sale of residue property not needed for Elm Ave. extension to Hayden Ave.
1349  1920
Ord.  5-11-  Appropriation to widen Shaw-View Ave.
1351  1920
Ord.  8-31-  Sale of property fronting on Elm Ave.
1402  1920
Ord.  9-14-  Sale of property fronting on Elm Ave.
1406  1920
Ord.  9-14-  Appropriation of part of Original Twp. Lot 44 for park and boulevard purposes.
1408  1920
Ord.  9-28-  Sale of Sublot 6 fronting on Elm Ave.
1410  1920
Ord.  9-28-  Sale of Sublot 14 fronting on Elm Ave.
1411  1920
Ord.  10-26- Sale of Sublot 13 fronting on Elm Ave.
1415  1920
Ord.  6-8-   Sale of property fronting on Marloes Ave.
1587  1922
Ord.  6-8-   Sale of property fronting on Terrace Rd.
1588  1922
Ord.  6-8-   Appropriation for an incinerator site.
1592  1922
Ord.  8-15-  Sale of property fronting on Marloes Ave.
1605  1922
Ord.  8-15-  Repeals Ord. 1592.
1606  1922
Ord.  8-15-  Sale of property fronting on Marloes Ave.
1607  1922
Ord.  8-29-  Sale of NE Doan and Allegheny Aves.
1608  1922
Ord.  1-16-  Appropriation for playground and street purposes.
1656  1923
Ord.  2-13-  Purchase to open N. Allendale Ave. to Euclid Ave.
1671  1923
Ord.  3-13-  Repeals Ord. 1656.
1693  1923
Ord.  3-13-  Sale of property fronting on Holyoke Ave.
1694  1923
Ord.  5-8-   Sale of property fronting on Terrace Rd.
1719  1923
Ord.  6-11-  Purchase to widen Euclid Ave. and Superior Rd. intersection.
1723  1923
Ord.  6-26-  Purchase of two parcels from Justh Mfg. Co.
1731  1923
Ord.  6-26-  Sale of land to Justh Mfg. Co.
1732  1923
Ord.  9-11-  Sale of land to W.C. Sibbison.
1749  1923
Ord.  9-11-  Sale of land to M.A. Gleason.
1750  1923
Ord.  10-9-  Purchase of property from A. Kramer; repeals Ord. 1751.
1757  1923
Ord.  11-20- Purchase from T.H. Bushnell.
1761  1923
Ord.  3-11-  Purchase from Union Mortgage Co. and Ericson.
1798  1924
Ord.  3-25-  Purchase from Duchon.
1804  1924
Ord.  4-8-   Purchase from M. Appel.
1810  1924
Ord.  4-8-   Purchase from G.A. Pettit.
1811  1924
Ord.  4-14-  Purchase from G.A. Pettit.
1820  1924
Ord.  8-12-  Appropriation of two parcels for street purposes.
1878  1924
Ord.  11-5-  Purchase from M. Appel of land at intersection of Coit Ave. and E. 152nd St.
1900  1924
Ord.  11-18- Appropriation of part of Twp. Lot 45 for street purposes.
1905  1924
Ord.  11-18- Appropriation of Sublots 1, 2 and 3 in Hoffman’s proposed subdivision on
1906  1924   Terrace Rd.
Ord.  3-24-  Appropriation of part of Sublots 22 and 23 in J.F. Herrick’s Subdivision for
1946  1925   street purposes.
Ord.  3-24-  Appropriation of part of Sublot 22 in J.F. Herrick’s Subdivision for street
1947  1925   purposes.
Ord.  3-24-  Appropriation of part of Original Twp. Lot 390 for street purposes.
1948  1925
Ord.  5-5-   Appropriation to open Elderwood Ave.
1973  1925
Ord.  5-5-   Appropriation to open Elderwood Ave.
1974  1925
Ord.  5-19-  Exchange of property with Mabel Parks for street purposes to extend from
1975  1925   Terrace Rd. to property appropriated from David Hawley.
Ord.  5-19-  Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 5 to Hathaway.
1978  1925
Ord.  8-12-  Exchange of property with O.L. Lenski for street purposes.
1997  1925
Ord.  10-27- Purchase from Carmen of part of Original Twp. Lot 45.
2008  1925
Ord.  11-4-  Purchase from C.J. Weber of part of Original Twp. Lot 381.
2015  1925
Ord.  12-1-  Purchase from Woodworth Rd. Land Co.
2028  1925
Ord.  12-1-  Exchange with Hazel O. Langdon.
2029  1925
Ord.  12-15- Purchase from May Co.; repeals Ord. 2019.
2043  1925
Ord.  12-15- Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 44 to J.W. Rinehart.
2048  1925
Ord.  1-5-   Appropriation of part of Original Twp. Lot 4 for street purposes.
2053  1926
Ord.  4-27-  Quit-claim deeds to Percy and Lenski.
2109  1926
Ord.  4-27-  Property exchange with Quincy.
2110  1926
Ord.  5-11-  Appropriation to improve SW corner of Euclid Ave. and Noble Rd.
2112  1926
Ord.  5-11-  Purchase from Foldenauer of Sublots 1, 2 and 3 of Hoffman’s proposed
2113  1926   subdivision on Terrace Rd.
Ord.  6-22-  Purchase from Schultz to open Elderwood Ave.
2121  1926
Ord.  8-18-  Quit claim deed to M. Baldwin for part of Original Twp. Lot 45.
2131  1926
Ord.  8-18-  Purchase from First Presbyterian Church to widen Kirke Rd. and Nela Ave.
2139  1926
Ord.  8-18-  Purchase from M. Murphy to widen Nela Ave.
2141  1926
Ord.  8-18-  Quit claim deed from Phypers.
2142  1926
Ord.  12-7-  Purchase to open Elderwood Ave. from Strathmore Ave. to 90 ft. NE from Chapman
2180  1926   Ave.
Ord.  12-21- Purchase from Mayou to open Elderwood Ave.
2184  1926
Ord.  1-4-   Deed from Board of Education for part of Original Twp. Lot 4 for street
2199  1927   purposes.
Ord.  2-15-  Amends 2112 regarding appropriation at SW corner of Euclid Ave. and Noble Rd.
2213  1927
Ord.  3-15-  Quit claim deed from Strathmore Realty.
2219  1927
Ord.  4-26-  Purchase from Larue to extend Elderwood Ave.
2228  1927
Ord.  8-16-  Purchase from Henderson to widen Taylor Rd.
2264  1927
Ord.  9-13-  Purchase to widen Taylor Rd. from Marshall, Case School, Henderson, Buddinger
2273  1927   and Gottron.
Ord.  12-20- Purchase from Steffens to widen Taylor Rd.
2296  1927
Ord.  4-10-  Purchase of Lots 22 and 23 on Glynn Rd. for street purposes.
2316  1928
Ord.  6-19-  Appropriation to extend Emily St. from Fay St. to Eddy Rd.
2331  1928
Ord.  6-19-  Appropriation to extend Sixth Ave. from E. 133rd St. to westerly city limits.
2332  1928
Ord.  8-28-  Quit claim deed to M. Baldwin for portion of Oakhill Rd.
2353  1928
Ord.  8-28-  Quit claim deed to Huron Rd. Hospital for NW corner of Strathmore Rd. and
2358A 1928   Euclid Ave.
Ord.  1-15-  Purchase from A.S. Forrest to extend Sixth Ave.
2380  1929
Ord.  1-15-  Purchase of part of Twp Lot 382 for street purposes.
2381  1929
Ord.  1-29-  Appropriation to extend Emily St. from Fay St. to Eddy Rd.
2387  1929
Ord.  3-5-   Quit claim deeds to Driggs, Vought and East Cleveland Lumber Co. for property
2393  1929   abutting 12- foot alley vacated by Ord. 2145.
Ord.  3-5-   Purchase from M. Brick and N. Meckler.
2394  1929
Ord.  3-26-  Purchase from Dempsey for extension of Emily St.
2396  1929
Ord.  4-23-  Purchase to extend Emily St. from Fay St. to Eddy Rd.
2407  1929
Ord.  5-21-  Purchase from McGregor Home Trustees to widen Lee Rd.
2416  1929
Ord.  5-21-  Appropriation to extend Sixth Ave. from E. 133rd St. to westerly city limits.
2417  1929
Ord.  5-21-  Appropriation to extend Hillsboro Rd. from Alton to Alcoy Rds. and Endora Rd.
2418  1929   from its present end to proposed Hillsboro Rd.
Ord.  6-4-   Appropriation to widen Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Glynn Rd.
2421  1929
Ord.  6-4-   Appropriation from O.G. Derning to extend Sixth Ave.
2425  1929
Ord.  7-16-  Appropriation to widen Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Glynn Rd.
2438  1929
Ord.  8-19-  Purchase from Schneider to widen Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Glynn Rd.; repeals
2458  1929   Ord. 2432.
Ord.  8-19-  Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 4 to E.F. Acker.
2463  1929
Ord.  8-19-  Quit claim deeds to Wick and Hellikson for seven-foot strip vacated on both
2464  1929   sides of Ravine Dr.
Ord.  9-10-  Purchase from H.C. Lincoln to widen Lee Rd.
2467  1929
Ord.  11-26- Exchange with Lula B. McCarroll.
2481  1929
Ord.  3-25-  Appropriation of part of Original Twp. Lot 381 for street and park purposes.
2509  1930
Ord.  4-8-   Purchase from Lannert and Event to extend Hillsboro and Endora Rds.
2511  1930
Ord.  4-8-   Exchange with E. Brush to extend Sixth Ave. west from E. 133rd St.
2514  1930
Ord.  4-8-   Deed from Belt and Terminal Realty Co. to extend Sixth Ave. west from E. 133rd
2515  1930   St.
Ord.  9-16-  Sale of Sublots 22 and 23 in Glynn Rd. Subdivision to Abeyton Realty Corp.
2570  1930
Ord.  10-14- Purchase from Treat to extend Mt. Vernon Blvd. from Forest Hill Subdivision to
2574  1930   Glynn Rd.
Ord.  11-5-  Quit claim deed to B.H. Cooper for portion of Terrace Rd. vacated.
2580  1930
Ord.  11-5-  Exchange with Euclid Y Improvement Co. to extend Hillsboro Rd.
2582  1930
Ord.  11-5-  Purchase of 4.39 acres near Ravine Dr.
2584  1930
Ord.  6-2-   Exchange with Potters Savings and Loan Co. of East Liverpool for extension of
2627  1931   Sixth Ave. from E. 133rd St.
Ord.  6-23-  Amends Ord. 2627 regarding land exchange for Sixth Ave. extension.
2629  1931
Ord.  6-30-  Purchase to widen Euclid-Coit intersection.
2633  1931
Ord.  6-30-  Purchase to widen Euclid-Coit intersection.
2634  1931
Ord.  8-12-  Amends Ord. 2633.
2646  1931
Ord.  12-22- Quit claim deed to Sterling Parks for part of Original Twp. Lot 44.
2676  1931
Ord.  12-22- Quit claim deed to Mabel Parks for part of Original Twp. Lot 44.
2677  1931
Ord.  3-22-  Appropriation to widen intersection of Superior and Euclid Aves.
2709  1932
Ord.  6-20-  Deed from T.M. Leasehold Co. and G. Caine to widen Euclid and Superior Aves.
2795  1933
Ord.  11-6-  Purchase of two parcels at Sheriff’s sale in Lorain County.
2989  1935
Ord.  11-6-  Sale of two parcels in Lorain County to Fred S. Jones, Inc.
2990  1935
Ord.  3-24-  Purchase of Sublot 128 in Cedar Hts. Land Co’s. Cedarbrook Allotment No. 4
3044  1936   (Cleveland Hts.).
Ord.  3-24-  Purchase of Sublot 66 in Homesite Co’s. Eastlawn Subdivision (Euclid).
3045  1936
Ord.  4-7-   Sale to L.V. Felt of Sublot 66 in Homesite Co’s. Eastlawn Subdivision (Euclid).
3053  1936
Ord.  5-26-  Sale to McCarrell of Sublot 128 in Cedar Hts. Land Co’s. Cedarbrook Allotment
3073  1936   No. 4 (Cleveland Hts.).
Ord.  6-16-  Purchase of 1133 E. 172nd St. and 15003 Tudor Rd. (Cleveland).
3079  1936
Ord.  7-28-  Purchase from Griese of parcel at Terrace and Belmore Rds. for street purposes.
3094  1936
Ord.  7-28-  Purchase of 3619 Cummings Rd. (Cleveland Hts.).
3098  1936
Ord.  9-8-   Sale of Sublot 61 in J.W. Maxwell’s Highland Subdivision No. 3 (Euclid) to A.
3106  1936   Nicol.
Ord.  9-8-   Sale of Sublot 171 in Rapid Transit Land Co’s. Subdivision No. 17B (Cleveland
3107  1936   Hts.) to D.A. Wolf.
Ord.  9-8-   Purchase of 3455 E. 117th St. (Cleveland), 16629 Lomond Blvd. and 16633 Lomond
3108  1936   Blvd. (Shaker Hts.).
Ord.  9-8-   Deed from NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR for land at Eddy Rd. yards.
3109  1936
Ord.  9-29-  Sale of Sublot 25 in Attica Subdivision (Cleveland) to A. Arth.
3115  1936
Ord.  10-6-  Sale of land on E. 172nd St. (Cleveland) to I.M. Hake.
3117  1936
Ord.  11-4-  Release of judgement lien to Kelly of part of Lot 393.
3125  1936
Ord.  11-17- Sale of Sublot 94 of Van Sweringeh Co’s. Resubdivision 1 of Subdivision 31
3139  1936   (Shaker Hts.) to C.W. Yeager.
Ord.  11-17- Sale of part of Sublot 35 in Southern and Chamberlin’s Subdivision of lots 334
3140  1936   and 335 (Cleveland) to E.L. Boyce.
Ord.  12-15- Purchase of 3148 Spangler Rd., 6016 and 6020 Hawthorne Ave. (Cleveland) and
3158  1936   Akron parcel at 482 Perkins Ave.
Ord.  12-15- Sale of Sublot 4 in Union Rice Subdivision (Cleveland) to T.L. Picklesimer.
3169  1936
Ord.  1-5-   Purchase of 1645 Cliffview Rd. NE (Cleveland).
3181  1937
Ord.  1-26-  Sale of Sublot 72 in Taylor Park Land Co’s. Forest Hill Overlook Subdivision
3182  1937   (Cleveland Hts.) to J.C. Lauersdorf.
Ord.  1-26-  Sale of Sublot 60 in Euclid Lawn Subdivision (Cleveland) to T.L. Picklesimer.
3183  1937
Ord.  1-26-  Sale of Sublot 95 of Van Sweringen Co’s. Resubdivision 1 of Subdivision 21
3184  1937   (Shaker Hts.) to CM. Albracht.
Ord.  3-26-  Sale of parcel south of Euclid Ave. between Taylor Rd. and Hastings Ave. to
3201  1937   American Legion E. Cleveland Post 163, Inc.
Ord.  3-26-  Sale of Sublot 163 in Shaker Land Co’s. Subdivision (Cleveland) to Economy
3204  1937   Bldg. Co.
Ord.  10-20- Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 44 to American Legion E. Cleveland Post 163,
3269  1937   Inc.
Ord.  3-8-   Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 45 to J.R. Grahling.
3319  1938
Ord.  3-8-   Disavowing ownership of five- foot strip extending from Terrace Rd. at a point
3320  1938   opposite Grasmere Ave. to Grandview Ter.
Ord.  4-5-   Conveyance of parcels by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. for park purposes; authorizes
3329  1938   agreement with Cleveland Hts.
Ord.  11-1-  Purchase of property in Taylor Creek Ravine north of Hanover Dr.
3376  1938
Ord.  1-17-  Purchase from Western Reserve University property in vicinity of Taylor Creek
3407  1939   Ravine and part of C.C. Hills Highland Terrace Allotment.
Ord.  1-17-  Quit claim deed from Binyon for property in Taylor Creek Ravine south of
3408  1939   Terrace Rd. and east of Taylor Rd.
Ord.  1-31-  Authorizes deed execution regarding Rockefeller conveyance and agreement with
3412  1939   Cleveland Hts.
Ord.  2-28-  Purchase from Union Properties, Inc. property on westerly side of Eddy Rd.
3425  1939   south of Nickel Plate RR.
Ord.  3-8-   Deed from Board of Education for entrance driveway to Forest Hills Park.
3428  1939
Ord.  3-28-  Deed from John D. Rockefeller, Jr. for land adjoining Superior Rd. between
3431  1939   Euclid Ave. and Terrace Rd.
Ord.  5-9-   Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 44 to A.F. Reinhardt.
3442  1939
Ord.  2-13-  Sale of part of Original Twp. Lots 382 and 390 to Forest Hills Center, Inc.
3627  1940
Ord.  4-3-   Purchase from E. Cleveland Lumber Co. for realignment of N. Noble Rd.
3539  1940
Ord.  3-25-  Purchase of four parcels, Nos. 1248-M 2-26, 1249-M 2-26, 1251-M1-13 and 1252-
3642  1941   M2-29 at forfeited land sale.
Ord.  10-21- Purchase from and quit claim deed to N.H. Zahner for widening Standwood Rd.
3680  1941
Ord.  10-21- Purchase from Standard Oil Co. part of Sublot 163 of Knight and Richardson
3681  1940   Allotment for street purposes.
Ord.  6-30-  Deed from Kapp and Cunnea in relation to property at SW corner of Euclid Ave.
3755  1942   and Superior Rd.
Ord.  5-8-   Sale of Parcels D, E and F in Original Twp Lot 6 to C. Bernstein or his
4033  1946   assignees.
Ord.  7-16-  Sale of part of Sublots 374 and 375 in Frisbie Co’s. Reallotment of Windermere
4046  1946   Subdivision 3 to G.A. Seibert or his assignees.
Ord.  1-14-  Purchase from Lanner of quit claim deed to two parcels being parts of Original
4097  1937   Twp. Lots 11, 43 and 44 in E. Cleveland and Lots 10 and 11 in Cleveland.
Ord.  2-25-  Sale of part of Original Twp. Lots 10, 11 and 43 to M.M. Vath.
4105  1947
Ord.  7-15-  Sale of part of Sublot 8 in Davis J. Crocker’s Subdivision to Vulcan Oil Co.
4146  1947
Ord.  8-26-  Quit claim deed from L.R. Divito for part of Sublot 260 in Nela Overlook
4165  1947   Subdivision for street purposes.
Ord.  2-10-  Purchase to widen N. Noble Rd. - Euclid Ave. intersection.
4219  1948
             Sale of Parcel B in J.F. Herrick’s Subdivision to Kanastab; land near Sublot 14
Ord.  6-17-  in H.J. Baker’s Allotment to A. Lohrey; land near Sublot 13 in H.J. Baker’s
4259  1948   Allotment to M.M. Brusman; land near Sublot 12 in H.J. Baker’s Allotment to
             Snyder; land near Sublot 11 in H.J. Baker’s Allotment to LaReau.
Ord.  7-13-  Sale of Sublots 39 and 40 in C.E. Bolton’s Subdivision to K.O. Marvin.
4264  1948
Ord.  8-10-  Sale of four parcels in Original Twp. Lots 4 and 45 to C.J. Harmon, Inc.
4280  1948
Ord.  12-14- Sale of part of Original Twp. Lot 43 to General Electric Co.
4300  1948
Ord.  1-25-  Quit claim deed from K.O. Marvin for Sublots 39 and 40 in C.E. Bolton’s
4318  1949   Subdivision.
Ord.  9-23-  Sale to J.P. Ditchman of Sublots 39 and 40 in C.E. Bolton’s Subdivision.
4668  1952
Ord.  12-29- Purchase of part of Original Lot 43, Tract 10 (Cleveland).
4781  1953
Ord.  2-23-  Purchase from H.S. White of part of Original Twp. Lot 3 and part of Sublot 7 in
4787  1954   David Crocker’s Subdivision.
Ord.  6-1-   Sale to General Electric of part of Original Lot 43, Tract 10 (Cleveland);
4802  1954   repeals Ord. 4783.
Ord.  12-27- Sale to General Electric Co. of two parcels in Original Lot 43, Tract 10
4912  1955   (Cleveland).
Ord.  6-26-  Purchase of part of Original Twp. Lot 5 and Sublots 2 and 3 of Patterson
4955  1956   Allotment.
Ord.  8-7-   Sale to General Electric of part of Original Lot 43, Tract 10 (Cleveland).
4962  1956
Ord.  9-7-   Sale to Eastown Hotel Co. of NE corner of Strathmore and Euclid Aves.
4968  1956
Ord.  7-2-   Sale of 18 parcels adjoining the premises at the rear of properties on easterly
5040  1957   side of Shawview Ave.
Ord.  10-8-  Purchase of Randozzone property being parts of Sublots 6 and 5 in the Patterson
5063  1957   Allotment (County Parcel 672-24-49).
Ord.  10-8-  Purchase of Tenant property being part of Sublot 6 in Patterson Allotment
5064  1957   (County Parcel 672-24-48).
Ord.  1-2-   Purchase of Wehrle property being parts of Sublots 5 and 4 in Patterson
5083  1958   Allotment.
Ord.  4-23-  Purchase of Donnelly property being parts of Sublots 4 and 3 in Patterson
5105  1958   Allotment.
Ord.  10-28- Sale to Coventry Park Co., Inc. being part of Original Twp. Lot 5 and parcel 6
5141  1958   of lands conveyed to city by J.D. Rockefeller, Jr.
Ord.  7-14-  Sale of seven parcels adjoining the rear of properties on NE side of Hillside
5187  1959   Ave.
Ord.  8-25-  Conveyance and acceptance of certain property on Hayden Ave.
5200  1959
Ord.  10-6-  Purchase from R.T. Greenburg, Trustee of Sublots 21 and 22 in Crawford Realty
5204  1959   Co’s. St. Clair-Hayden Allotment.
Ord.  10-20- Accepting property at NE corner of Euclid Ave. and Taylor Rd. and dedication
5208  1959   for street purposes.
Ord.  12-15- Amends Ord. 5204 regarding purchase of property on E. 133rd St.
5216  1959
Ord.  6-14-  Sale of NW part of Sublot 21 in Crawford Realty Co’s. St. Clair-Hayden
5266  1960   Allotment of part of Original Lot 366.
Ord.  5-9-   Purchase of parcel at SW corner of Noble Rd. and Euclid Ave. to widen
5463  1963   intersection.
Ord.  7-2-   Sale of parcel adjacent to Hawley Park and Terrace Rd.
5488  1963
Ord.  8-27-  Sale to G. Leslie of parcel being part of Original Twp. Lots 44 and 45 on NW
5494  1963   side of Terrace Rd.
Ord.  8-24-  Purchase from M.A. Paul of County Parcel 672-10-8 on SW side of Eddy Rd.
5662  1965
Ord.  9-24-  Purchase of 13821, 13825 and 13813-15 Ardenall Ave. and 13824-26, 13820-22 and
5666  1965   13816 Shaw Ave.
Ord.  2-13-  Purchase from Shell Oil Co. at NE corner of Hayden and Scioto Aves.
5875  1968
Ord.  9-23-  Purchase of 13809 Strathmore Ave. from estate of K. Simunovich.
6029  1969
Ord.  9-23-  Purchase of two parcels at SW corner of Coventry Rd. and Mont Ave. from the
6034  1969   Ashland Oil and Refining Co.
Ord.  10-7-  Purchase of 1640 Allegheny Ave. from George Cannon et al.
6039  1969
Ord.  10-7-  Purchase of 1441 Hayden Ave. from Summit Masi.
6040  1969
Ord.  10-7-  Purchase of 1617-19 and 1613 Doan Ave. from Christina Introcaso et al.
6041  1969
Ord.  10-7-  Purchase of 1645 Doan Ave. from Lillian Corsillo et al.
6042  1969
Ord.  10-7-  Purchase of 1621 Doan Ave. from Frank Knobel.
6043  1969
Ord.  10-21- Purchase of 1609 Doan Ave. from Angela Steiger.
6047  1969
Ord.  11-5-  Purchase of 13822 Mayfair Ave. from Lenzi Magee Sr. et al.
6050  1969
Ord.  11-5-  Appropriation of 1433-35 Hayden Ave. from Mary Nick.
6051  1969
Ord.  11-5-  Appropriation of 1437-39 Hayden Ave. from Sarah Schoen et al.
6052  1969
Ord.  11-17- Purchase of 1629 Doan Ave. from Marie P. Cavano.
6055  1969
Ord.  11-17- Purchase of 1633 Doan Ave. from Charles Caponigro estate.
6056  1969
Ord.  11-17- Purchase of 13902-04 Mayfair Ave. from Robert Brown et al.
6057  1969
Ord.  11-17- Purchase of 1653-57 Doan Ave. from Kieco, Inc.
6058  1969
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1641-45 Hayden Ave. from Anne Rado.
6062  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 1635 Hayden Ave. from Sun Oil Co.
6067  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 1653 Allegheny Ave. from Jessie Tucker et al.
6068  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 1637 Hayden Ave. from Joseph A. Korpon et al.
6069  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 1625 Doan Ave. from estate of Finelli et al.
6070  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 1657 Allegheny Ave. from Isabelle T. Reynolds.
6071  1969
Ord.  12-16- Appropriation of 1549 Hayden Ave. from Union Oil Co. et al.
6072  1969
Ord.  12-16- Appropriation of 13812 Mayfair Ave. from Alonzo C. Turner.
6073  1969
Ord.  12-16- Appropriation of 1630-36 Allegheny Ave. from Wm. Hommel et al.
6074  1969
Ord.  12-16- Purchase of 13816-18 Mayfair Ave. from Herbert A. Wienold et al.
6075  1969
Ord.  12-30- Purchase of SW corner of E. 133rd St. and Mann Ave. from Great Western Juice
6077  1969   Co.
Ord.  1-13-  Purchase of 13812 Mayfair Ave. from Alonzo C. Turner.
6089  1970
Ord.  1-27-  Purchase of 1630 Allegheny Ave. from W. Hommel et al.
6095  1970
Ord.  5-6-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1649 Hayden Ave.
6128  1970
Ord.  5-6-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1437 Hayden Ave.
6129  1970
Ord.  5-6-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1641-45 Hayden Ave.
6130  1970
Ord.  6-2-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1433-35 Hayden Ave.
6138  1970
Ord.  10-20- Purchase of 13809 Orinoco Ave. from David LeSure et al.
6177  1970
Ord.  10-20- Purchase of 1462 Hayden Ave. from James Scales et al.
6181  1970
Ord.  10-20- Purchase of 13618 Fourth Ave. from Richard Lutheran et al.
6182  1970
Ord.  10-20- Purchase of 13812-14 Strathmore Ave. from W. Valis et al.
6183  1970
Ord.  11-4-  Purchase of 1515 Hayden Ave. from Harry Borden.
6184  1970
Ord.  11-17- Purchase of 1694 Hayden Ave. from Dalton F. Lavender et al.
6197  1970
Ord.  12-1-  Purchase of 1470-72 Hayden Ave. from Mary Thompson Salasavage et al.
6199  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of Parcel 671-6-2 from Metromedia, Inc.
6202  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 13612-14 Fourth Ave. from Virgil Williams et al.
6203  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1458-60 Hayden Ave. from Robert Lancz.
6204  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1466-68 Hayden Ave. from Jean Wurm.
6205  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of Parcel 671-6-50 from Groh et al.
6206  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1474-78 Hayden Ave. from Hayden-Hartford Inc.
6207  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1454-56 Hayden Ave. from Edward Hill et al.
6208  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of Parcel 671-6-1 from Simon Apple et al.
6209  1970
Ord.  12-15- Appropriation of 1447 Hayden Ave. from Edward Hyland.
6210  1970
Ord.  12-19- Purchase of 1451-59 and 1463-65 Hayden Ave. from Windermere Storage Co.
6214  1970
Ord.  1-26-  Appropriation of 1450-52 Hayden Ave. from Danmar, Inc.
6224  1971
Ord.  2-9-   Purchase of 1450-52 Hayden Ave. from Danmar, Inc.
6227  1971
Ord.  2-23-  Purchase of Parcel 671-6-50 from Charles Groh et al.
6236  1971
Ord.  4-6-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1447 Hayden Ave.
6246  1971
Ord.  4-6-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1454-56 Hayden Ave.
6247  1971
Ord.  5-5-   Purchase of 1668-72 Hayden Ave. from Apple.
6253  1971
Ord.  5-5-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1458-60 Hayden Ave.
6254  1971
Ord.  5-5-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1466-68 Hayden Ave.
6255  1971
Ord.  5-5-   Purchase of Parcels 671-6-2 and 671-6-51 from Metromedia, Inc.
6256  1971
Ord.  5-18-  Purchase of 1545-47 Hayden Ave. from Minnie Taylor et al.
6259  1971
Ord.  5-18-  Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 1474-78 Hayden Ave.
6260  1971
Ord.  6-1-   Accepts jury appropriation verdict for 13612-14 Fourth Ave.
6263  1971
Ord.  6-15-  Conveyance of 114,234 square ft. to Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority.
6267  1971
Ord.  12-14- Accepts triangular parcel adjacent to Terrace Rd. from Forrest Hills Terrace
6323  1971   Apts.
Ord.  12-14- Purchase of 13601 Euclid Ave. from Huebner Realty Co.
6327  1971
Ord.  5-16-  Purchase of 1656 Hayden Ave. from Christian Meeting Corp.
6355  1972
Ord.  5-30-  Purchase of 1640-46 Hayden Ave. from Kravitz et al.
6358  1972
Ord.  5-30-  Purchase of 1646-54 Hayden Ave. from Morris A. Harris et al.
6361  1972
Ord.  5-30-  Purchase of 1622-32 Hayden Ave. from Darnel Seiger et al.
6362  1972
Ord.  5-30-  Purchase of 13711-13 Sixth Ave. from Carl L. Zilke et al.
6363  1972
Ord.  6-27-  Purchase of 1610-1620 Hayden Ave. from Koch and Allen, Inc.
6375  1972
Ord.  6-27-  Purchase of 13704-06 Fifth Ave. from Sims Wilkens et al.
6376  1972
Ord.  6-27-  Purchase of 13811 Savannah Ave. from estate of Marie T. Davies.
6377  1972
Ord.  8-8-   Purchase of property, N. side of Fifth Ave., Parcel 4, Block 8.
6391  1972
Ord.  8-22-  Purchase of 1507-11 Hayden Ave. from Orlosky et al.
6393  1972
Ord.  9-5-   Purchase of 13812-14 Savannah Ave. from Farris Hill et al.
6397  1972
Ord.  10-17- Purchase of 1660 Hayden Ave. from Edward O. Ericson, DBA Ericson Mfg. Co.
6405  1972
Ord.  10-31- Purchase of 1517-21 Hayden Ave. from Tarantino Apts., Inc.
6410  1972
Ord.  11-14- Purchase of 1636 Hayden Ave. from Gulf Oil Corp.
6414  1972
Ord.  2-6-   Appropriate property Co. Auditor 671-5-109, #84 from Louis Rubin.
6431  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 1502-04 Hayden Ave. from Robert Kye Bennie et al.
6441  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 13512 Hartford Ave. from Harmon et al.
6442  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 13706 Milan Ave. from Henry and Viola Evans.
6443  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 13810-12 Potomac Ave. from Ronald Cowler.
6444  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 1539-41 Hayden Ave. from E. Cleveland Savings and Loan Co.
6445  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 1442-44 Hayden Ave. from Williams et al.
6446  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 1588-90 Hayden Ave. from Anabel George.
6447  1973
Ord.  3-6-   Purchase of 13809-11 Potomac Ave. from Mary W. Brass.
6448  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate Co. Auditor Parcel 671-24-4; 1527-35 Hayden Ave. #17-5 from Jos.
6451  1973   Carmosino et al.
Ord.  3-20-  Purchase of 13709 Claiborne Ave. from Jos. J. Wright et al.
6452  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Purchase of 1540-48 Hayden Ave. from Wardell Williford et al.
6453  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Purchase of 1543 Hayden Ave. from Reba Stout et al.
6454  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Purchase of 13705-07 Milan Ave. from Ollie Mae Henderson.
6455  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Purchase of 1469-73 Hayden Ave. from John Iacofano.
6456  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1438-40 Hayden Ave. from Leon Stevenson.
6459  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1582-86 Hayden Ave. from Jos. Kamen et al.
6460  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1530-38 Hayden Ave. from David M. Sutta.
6461  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1501-05 Hayden Ave. from Leonard Williams.
6462  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1516-20 Hayden Ave. from Ardelin Hagler.
6463  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1510-14 Hayden Ave. from Lloyd Palms.
6464  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1426-32 Hayden Ave. from Jos. E. Smith et al.
6465  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1469 Hayden Ave. from Earl Lane, DBA, Del’s Laundromat.
6466  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1434-36 Hayden Ave. from Eliz. Nailer.
6470  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1442-44 Hayden Ave. from Lou C. Williams.
6471  1973
Ord.  3-20-  Appropriate 1446-48 Hayden Ave. from Lydia Mellini.
6472  1973
Ord.  3-27-  Appropriate 1524-28 Hayden Ave. from Otis Morgan et al.
6476  1973
Ord.  3-27-  Purchase 1523 Hayden Ave. from Administration of Vet. Affairs.
6477  1973
Ord.  5-1-   Purchase of 1582-84 Hayden Ave. from Jos. Kamen et al.
6481  1973
Ord.  6-26-  Purchase 13709 Claiborne Ave. from Administration of Vet. Affairs.
6492  1973
Ord.  7-19-  Accepts jury verdict for 1527-35 Hayden Ave. from Jos. Carmosino et al.
6501  1973
Ord.  7-19-  Accepts jury verdict for 1530-38 Hayden Ave. from David M. Sutta.
6502  1973
Ord.  7-19-  Accepts jury verdict for 1524-28 Hayden Ave. from Otis E. and Helena Morgan.
6503  1973
Ord.  9-4-   Appropriate 13809-13811 Potomac Ave. from Mary W. Brass.
6510  1973
Ord.  9-4-   Appropriate 13709 Claiborne Ave. from Wright et al.
6511  1973
Ord.  9-4-   Appropriate 1469-93 Hayden Ave. from John Sacofano.
6512  1973
Ord.  9-18-  Accepts jury verdict for 1426-32 Hayden Ave. from Jos. E. and Mamie Smith.
6514  1973
Ord.  9-18-  Accepts jury verdict for 1434-36 Hayden Ave. from Eliz. Nailer.
6515  1973
Ord.  9-18-  Accepts jury verdict for 1438-40 Hayden Ave. from Leon Stevenson.
6516  1973
Ord.  9-18-  Accepts jury verdict for 1442-44 Hayden Ave. from Eddie Mae Williams.
6517  1973
Ord.  9-18-  Accepts jury verdict for 1446-48 Hayden Ave. from Lydia Mellini.
6518  1973
Ord.  10-16- Purchase 1551-55 Hayden Ave. from Stanley and Julia Centa.
6521  1973
Ord.  10-16- Purchase 1557-59 Hayden Ave. from Stanley and Julia Centa.
6522  1973
Ord.  11-27- Appropriating 13811 Northfield Ave. from Hudson Ford, Jr. et al.
6527  1973
Ord.  11-27- Appropriate 13917-19 Mayfair Ave. from Cecilia V. Kolenick.
6528  1973
Ord.  12-11- Purchase 13811 Northfield Rd. from Hudson Ford, Jr. et al.
6531  1973
Ord.  12-11- Accepts jury verdict for 13809-11 Potomac Ave. from Mary W. Brass.
6532  1973
Ord.  12-26- Purchase 13917-19 Mayfair Ave. from Cecilia Kolenick et al.
6536  1973
Ord.  2-5-   Accepts jury verdict for 13709 Clairborne Ave. from Jos. Wright et al.
6558  1974
Ord.  11-28- Sale of land in Hayden Ave. Development Project to Rosie L. Phillips.
6785  1975
Ord.  1-20-  Gift of property from Towmotor Corp.
6807  1976
Ord.  2-17-  Sale of land in Hayden Ave. Development Project to Neighbors Organized for
6820  1976   Action in Housing, Inc.
Ord.  3-16-  Property exchange with Trustees of the Public Library Board.
6839  1976
Ord.  3-30-  Sale of land in Hayden Ave. Development Project to Howard and Clara Anglen.
6844  1976
Ord.  5-18-  Purchase of vacant homes at 14607 Orinoco, 14506 Potomoc and 1866 Marloes from
6857  1976   the Federal Housing Administration.
Ord.  5-18-  Sale of land and structures at 14607 Orinoco, 14506 Potomac and 1866 Marloes to
6859  1976   the city’s Community Development Corp.
Ord.  8-17-  Project agreement for 14524 Terrace and 1846 Allendale to the city’s Community
6895  1976   Development Corp.
Ord.  8-17-  Purchase of 14524 Terrace and 1846 Allendale from U.S.A. HUD, FHA.
6896  1976
Ord.  9-21-  Accepting part of Original Euclid Twp. Lot No. 11, Tract 8, from Andrew Luni
6912  1976   and James Sorgi.
Ord.  11-30- Accepting part of Sublots 26 and 27, part of Original Euclid Twp. Lot No. 4
6935  1976   from Theodore S. and Helen B. Holtz and A. Albert Perelman and Ann Perelman.
Ord.  6-7-   Purchase of Permanent Parcel No. 671-4-28 from Federal Housing Administration.
7012  1977
Ord.  7-19-  Conveyance of land and structure to the city’s Community Development Corp. for
7023  1977   rehabilitation purposes.
Ord.  8-2-   Conveyance of land in Hayden Ave. Neighborhood Development Project No. Ohio A-
7036  1977   1 to Vipco Personalized Service, Inc.
Ord.  8-16-  Purchase of Permanent Parcel Nos. 671-14-55, 672-24-59, 671-17-76 and 671-12-46
7049  1977   from Federal Housing Administration.
Ord.  8-16-  Conveyance of land and structures to the city’s Community Development Corp. for
7051  1977   rehabilitation purposes.
Ord.  10-4-  Conveyance of land in Hayden Ave. Neighborhood Development Project No. Ohio A-
7073  1977   1 to Superior Homes for Every Man, Inc.
Ord.  2-21-  Purchase of Permanent Parcel Nos. 673-8-34, 672-5-39, 671-2-32 and 671-12-46.
7128  1978
Ord.  2-21-  Project Agreement for sale of 1863 Page, 1281 Rozelle, 13415-17 Shaw and 14008
7129  1978   Orinoco, East Cleveland for rehabilitation purposes.
Ord.  3-21-  Accepting gift of property located at 1641 Carlyon Rd., East Cleveland from the
7135  1978   Veteran’s Administration.
Ord.  5-23-  Purchase of 14480 Euclid Ave., E. Cleveland from Cleveland Trust Co.
7161  1978
Ord.  7-13-  Purchase and improve a portion of parking facilities at Huron Rd. Hospital.
7178  1978
Ord.  9-5-   Project Agreement and assignment of portions of Disposition Parcel No. C-1,
7200  1978   amends Ord. 7073.
Ord.  11-8-  Purchase of Sublot No. 92 in Berwald Steward Co. Subdivision and Sublot No. 33
7223  1978   in Grobe Subdivision.
Ord.  12-19- Project agreement for sale of 13513 Gainsboro, 1458-60 E. 134th to the city’s
7236  1978   Community Development Corp.
Ord.  1-2-   Purchase vacant houses at 1245-47 E. 144th Street, 14401-03 Ardenall, 14101-03
7241  1979   Mayfair Ave. from the Federal Housing Administration.
Ord.  1-30-  Purchase vacant houses at 1245-47 E. 144th St., 14401-03 Ardenall, 14101-03
7251  1979   Mayfair Ave. from the Veteran’s Administration.
Ord.  1-30-  Project agreement sale of 1245-47 E. 144th St. 14401-03 Ardenall Ave., 14101-03
7252  1979   Mayfair Ave. to the city’s Community Development Corp.
Ord.  4-3-   Purchase vacant houses at 13605 Clairborne, 1895 Knowles, 13304-06 Milan, 1738-
7279  1979   40 Rosedale, 1119-21 Thornhill Dr. from the Veteran’s Administration.
Ord.  4-3-   Project agreement for sale of 13605 Claiborne, 1895 Knowles, 13304-06 Milan,
7280  1979   1738-40 Rosedale, 1119-21 Thornhill Dr. to the city’s Community Development
             Corp.
Ord.  5-1-   Accepts property at E. 133rd St. and Second Ave. from Lutheran Housing Corp.
7287  1979
Ord.  5-1-   Purchase of vacant houses at 1250 Carylon and 14509 Potomac from the Federal
7292  1979   Housing Administration.
Ord.  5-1-   Project agreement for sale of 1250 Carlyon and 14509 Potomac to the city’s
7293  1979   Community Development Corp.
Ord.  6-19-  Purchase of property at 12807-11 Superior Ave. for off-street parking from
7311  1979   David E. and Francine Meyers.
Ord.  11-7-  Purchase vacant lots at 1817 and 1823 Windermere for off-street parking
7352  1979   purposes.
Ord.  1-29-  Gift of property from Faversham, Inc. and S.H. and J. Weiser.
7382  1980
Ord.  2-5-   Purchase of vacant houses at 1287-89 E. 141st St., 1354 Elwood Rd., 13409
7383  1980   Garden Ave. and 14516 Northfield Ave. from Veteran’s Administration.
Ord.  2-5-   Sale of property at 1287-89 E. 141st St., 1354 Elwood Rd., 13409 Garden Ave.
7384  1980   and 14516 Northfield Ave. to the city’s Community Development Corp.
Ord.  4-1-   Transfer of Project Agreement of 9-6-78 for disposition of Parcel C-1-B from
7402  1980   Hayden Peninsula to Lawson Co.
Ord.  7-15-  Purchase of vacant houses at 1211 Rozelle Ave., 1559 Glenmont Rd., 1863-65
7424  1980   Rosemont Ave. and 1281-83 E. 133 Rd St. from Veteran’s Administration and
             Federal Housing Administration.
Ord.  7-15-  Sale of property at 1211 Rozelle Ave., 1559 Glenmont Rd., 1863-65 Rosemont Rd.
7425  1980   (sic.) 1281-83 E. 133rd St. and 14121-23 Potomac Ave. to the city’s Community
             Development Corp.
Ord.  8-19-  Exchange of land with the city’s Board of Education for construction site of
7433  1980   new Chambers School.
Ord.  9-16-  Purchase of property for public parking purposes from L.M. Blair Sr. and Emily
7441  1980   Blair.
Ord.  9-16-  Purchase of vacant house at 1284 E. 133rd St. from Federal Housing
7443  1980   Administration.
Ord.  9-16-  Sale of property at 1284 E. 133rd St. to the city’s Community Development Corp.
7444  1980
Ord.  4-21-  Purchase of vacant house at 14401-03 Potomac Ave. from U.S. Secretary of
7482  1981   Housing and Urban Development.
Ord.  4-21-  Sale of property at 14401-03 Potomac Ave. to the city’s Community Development
7483  1981   Corp.
Ord.  4-20-  Purchase of vacant structures at 1722 Northfield Rd., Permanent Parcel 673-6-
7548  1982   34, and 1828 Allendale Ave., from Veteran’s Administration.
Ord.  4-20-  Conveyance for rehabilitation of 1722 Northfield Rd. and 1828 Allendale Ave. to
7549  1982   the city’s Community Development Corp.
Ord.  7-13-  Donation of land bounded by Eddy Rd., Euclid Ave., Superior Rd. and Emily Ave.
7571  1982   to Superior Euclid Urban Renewal Project.
Ord.  9-21-  Transfer of property and construction of RTA parking lot with Regional Transit
7589  1982   Authority and Superior Square Inc.
Ord.  10-5-  Conveyance of certain property from Narmac, Inc., including Permanent Parcels
7593  1982   672-10-12 and 672-10-14, pertaining to McDonald’s parking lot connection with
             Superior-Euclid Urban Renewal Project.
Ord.  11-3-  Purchase of vacant house at 1234 Carlyon Rd., Permanent Parcel 672-04-172 from
7600  1982   Federal Housing Administration.
Ord.  11-3-  Sale of 1234 Carlyon Rd. to the city’s Community Development Corp. for
7601  1982   rehabilitation.
Ord.  12-14- Sale of Parcel C-1-C in Hayden Ave. Neighborhood Development Project to
7613  1982   Church’s Fried Chicken, Inc.
Ord.  2-21-  Conveyance of portion of city-owned Tow Motor property to the city’s Elderly
7709  1984   Housing and Services, Inc. for construction of apartment building.
Ord.  5-8-   Repurchase of land, building and premises at 1825 Coit Rd. from American
7778  1985   Legion.
Ord.  5-20-  Authorizes acceptance as a gift; real estate at 12813 Superior Ave. from Lloyd
7823  1986   M. and Emily Blair.
Ord.  9-30-  Authorizes purchase of real estate for a housing lottery.
7847  1986
Ord.  3-17-  Authorizes conveyance of property at 1191 E. 125th St. to James Dixon.
7875  1987
Ord.  8-4-   Authorizes conveyance of property at 12807-13 Superior Ave. to Mt. Nebo Baptist
7894  1987   Church.
Ord.  10-20- Directs conveyance of the Swimming Pool Property to the Board of Education.
7902  1987
Ord.  6-7-   Authorizes purchase of Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Nos. 671-15-002, 671-15-004,
7929  1988   671-15-005 and 673-03-122 without competitive bidding.
Ord.  6-7-   Authorizes conveyance of land (30,397.37 sq. ft.) to the city’s Elderly Housing
7932  1988   and Services Inc.
Ord.  7-29-  Authorizes sale of land at 1742 Bryn Mawr (P.P. No. 672-11-009) to the public
83-92 1992   library.
Res.  12-15-
128-  1992   Acknowledges gift of real property at 13504 Emily Ave.
92
Res.  12-15-
129-  1992   Acknowledges gift of real property at 14209-14213 Euclid Ave.
92
Ord.  6-15-  Authorizes sale of parcel at 1864 Stanwood as part of land reutilization
52-93 1993   program.
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of property at 1369 E. 134th St. as part of land reutilization
51-93 1993   program.
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of premises at Brightwood (P.P. 672-14-062/063) as part of land
53-93 1993   reutilization program.
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1880 Rosalind as part of land reutilization
54-93 1993   program.
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1047-49 E. 130th. St. as part of land
55-93 1993   reutilization program.
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1834 Woodlawn as part of land reutilization
56-93 1993   program.
Ord.  6-29-  Accepting gift of P.P. 673-02-017 from L. and S. Greenberger.
68-93 1993
Ord.  6-29-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1624 Elberon St. as part of land reutilization
69-93 1993   program.
Ord.  9-21-  Authorizes sale of premises at 13504 Emily Ave. as part of land reutilization
94-93 1993   program.
Ord.  10-7-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1039 E. 130th. St. as part of land reutilization
104-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  10-7-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1821 Chapmen Ave. as part of land reutilization
105-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  10-7-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1369 E. 134 St. as part of land reutilization
106-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  10-7-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1674 Delmont Ave. as part of land reutilization
107-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  10-7-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1247 E. 133rd. St. as part of land reutilization
109-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  11-16- Authorizes sale of premises at 1279 Carlyon Rd. as part of land reutilization
124-  1993   program.
93
Ord.  4-19-  Authorizes purchase of premises at 15009 Elm Ave., and transfer to Lutheran
52-94 1994   Housing Corp., for home program.
Ord.  5-31-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1888 Lambert as part of land reutilization
3-94  1994   program.
Ord.  5-31-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1876 Lambert as part of land reutilization
43-94 1994   program.
Ord.  5-31-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1884 Lambert as part of land reutilization
45-94 1994   program.
Ord.  5-31-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1511 Coit Rd. as part of land reutilization
56-94 1994   program.
Ord.  5-31-  Authorizes sale of premises at 1751-53 Fay as part of land reutilization
57-94 1994   program.
Ord.  7-19-  Authorizes purchase of premises at 15757 Euclid Ave. to serve as a service
72-94 1994   garage and the like.
Ord.  9-20-  Authorizes sale of premises at 13413 Second Ave. as part of land reutilization
93-94 1994   program.
Ord.  9-20-  Authorizes sale of premises at 13417 Second Ave. as part of land reutilization
94-94 1994   program.
Res.  11-1-
117-  1994   Acknowledging gift of real property located at 1721-1727 Bryn Mawr.
94
Ord.  4-4-   Authorizes sale of land at 1759 Auburndale Ave. as part of land reutilization
28-95 1995   program.
Ord.  7-25-  Authorizes sale of land held by reutilization program at 13859 Euclid Ave.
73-95 1995
Ord.  7-25-  Authorizes sale of land held by reutilization program at 1660 Collamer Ave.
74-95 1995
Res.  10-31- Acknowledges gift of real property at 1757 Page Ave., from Home Bank fka Home
116-  1995   Federal Savings Bank.
95
Ord.  10-31- Authorizes sale of land at 13404 Second Ave. as part of land reutilization
118-  1995   program.
95
Ord.  1-16-  Authorizes sale of land parcel at 1282 E. 134th St. as part of the land
130-  1996   reutilization program.
95
Res.  2-20-
133-  1996   Acknowledges gift of real property at 1753 Hayden Ave.
95
Ord.  4-16-  Authorizes sale of Vacant Lot Permanent Parcel No. 673-20-014 on Taylor Rd.
22-96 1996
Ord.  6-4-   Authorizes sale of land parcel at 1836 Garfield Rd. as part of the land
32-96 1996   reutilization program.
Ord.  6-4-   Authorizes sale of P.P. No. 672-01-050 at 1759 Auburndale Ave. as part of the
33-96 1996   land reutilization program.
Ord.  6-18-  Authorizes sale of land parcel at 14017-19 Orinoco Ave. as part of the land
41-96 1996   reutilization program.
Ord.  8-20-  Authorizes sale of Permanent Parcel No. 671-09-084 at 1635-37 Pontiac St. as
59-96 1996   part of the land reutilization program.
Ord.  8-27-  Authorizes sale of Permanent Parcel No. 672-05-067 at 1177-79 Rozelle Ave.
56-96 1996
Ord.  8-27-  Authorizes sale of Permanent Parcel No. 672-04-062 at 1184 N. Lockwood Ave. as
57-96 1996   part of the land reutilization program.
Ord.  8-27-  Authorizes sale of Permanent Parcel No. 672-07-101 at 1689-91 Carlyon Rd. as
58-96 1996   part of the land reutilization program.
Ord.  9-17-  Authorizes sale of Permanent Parcel No. 672-12-016, “the Hatton’s Bar
74-96 1996   Property”, as part of the land reutilization program.
Ord.  10-1-  Authorizing sale of land held by the city as part of its land reutilization
11-97 1997   program and located at 14417-19 Elderwood Rd. (Permanent Parcel No. 673-07-
             046).
Ord.  3-18-  Authorizing sale of land held by the city as part of its land reutilization
19-97 1997   program and located at 1876 Lambert St. (Permanent Parcel No. 672-17-068).
Ord.  3-18-  Authorizing sale of land held by the city as part of its land reutilization
20-97 1997   program and located at 1880 Lambert St. (Permanent Parcel No. 672-17-069).
Ord.  3-18-  Authorizing sale of land held by the city as part of its land reutilization
21-97 1997   program and located at 1884 Lambert St. (Permanent Parcel No. 672-17-070).
Ord.  8-19-  Authorizing sale of two parcels of land held by the city as part of its land
68-97 1997   reutilization program and located at 1721-1727 Bryn Mawr (Permanent Parcel Nos.
             672-12-026 and 672-12-027).
Ord.  9-15-  Authorizes sale of land at 14417-19 Elderwood Rd. (Permanent Parcel 673-07-046)
89-98 1998   as part of the land reutilization program.
Ord.  4-6-   Authorizes transfer of land parcel at 1605 Hayden Ave. to the county as part of
50-99 1999   land reutilization program (Permanent Parcel 671-12-014).
Ord.  4-6-   Authorizes transfer of land parcel at 1615-17 Hayden Ave. to the county as part
51-99 1999   of land reutilization program (Permanent Parcel 671-12-015).
Res.  6-6-   Acknowledges gift of real property at 1660 E. 133rd St. from H. and E.
85-00 2000   Bodiford.
Ord.  7-18-  Authorizes transfer of land parcel at 1250 Hayden Ave. (Permanent Parcel 671-
100-  2000   01-178) held as part of city’s land reutilization program to H. Isby.
00
Ord.  7-18-  Authorizes transfer of land parcel at 1252 Hayden Ave. (Permanent Parcel 671-
101-  2000   01-179) held as part of city’s land reutilization program to H. Isby.
00
Ord.  3-6-   Authorizes sale of land parcel at 1830 Beersford Place to Fareed Enterprises,
07-01 2001   Inc.
Ord.  3-6-   Authorizes sale of land parcel at 1835 Beersford Place to Fareed Enterprises,
08-01 2001   Inc.
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1041 E. 125th St.
55-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1057 E. 125th St.
56-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1073 E. 125th St.
57-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1085 E. 125th St.
58-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1097 E. 125th St.
59-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1127 E. 125th St.
60-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1133 E. 125th St.
61-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1143 E. 125th St.
62-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1171 N. Lockwood Ave.
63-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1177 N. Lockwood Ave.
64-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1241 E. 125th St.
65-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 12505 Phillips Ave.
66-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1315 E. 125th St.
67-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1610 Elsinore Ave.
68-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1641 Carlyon Rd.
69-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1641 Elberon Ave.
70-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1645 Carlyon Rd.
71-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1647 Holyoke Ave.
72-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1649 Carlyon Rd.
73-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1663-5 Delmont Ave.
74-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1685 Elberon Ave.
75-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1689 Elberon Ave.
76-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1751-53 Fay St.
77-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1759 Delmont Ave.
78-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1765 Hower Ave.
79-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1783-93 Hayden Ave.
80-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1832 Brightwood Ave.
81-01 2001
Ord.  4-5-   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1683 Delmont Ave.
82-01 2001
Ord.  6-5-
110-  2001   Authorizes transfer to CMHA of land parcel at 1173 N. Lockwood Ave.
01
Ord.  8-21-
142-  2001   Authorizes transfer to M. Slay of land parcel at 13613 Garden Rd.
01
Ord.  8-21-
143-  2001   Authorizes transfer to J. More of land parcel at 1830 Hayden Ave.
01
Ord.  8-21-
144-  2001   Authorizes transfer to M.A. Haynes of land parcel at 1102 Carlyon Rd.
01
Ord.  8-21-  Authorizes transfer to A. Williams of land parcel at 1782 Taylor Rd. in
147-  2001   exchange for parcel at 14613-14615 Orinoco Ave.
01
Ord.  1-21-  Authorizes transfer of land at 2142 Westburn Ave. to J.A. Hager as part of
10-03 2003   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1571-1573 Coit Rd. to L. Emery as part of city’s
127-  2003   land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1176 N. Lockwood to A. Young as part of city’s
128-  2003   land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 15447 Terrace Rd. to E.E. Walton as part of
129-  2003   city’s land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1735 Northfield Ave. to G.R. Valentine as part
130-  2003   of city’s land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1309 E. 142nd St. to Stoudmire Investment Group
131-  2003   as part of city’s land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1102 Carlyon Rd. to Harriet Thomas Group as part
132-  2003   of city’s land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-15-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1769 Hayden Ave. to W. Thomas as part of city’s
137-  2003   land reutilization program.
03
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1755 Wymore Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC
112-  2004   as part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 12609 Superior Ave. to Stoudmire Investment
113-  2004   Group as part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1751 Northfield Ave. to Stoudmire Investment
114-  2004   Group as part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1664 Lockwood Ave. to A. Alli as part of city’s
116-  2004   land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1753 Page Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC as
118-  2004   part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1724 Wymore Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC
119-  2004   as part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1756 Page Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC as
120-  2004   part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1720 Page Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC as
121-  2004   part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  7-20-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1740 Page Ave. to Page-Wymore Properties, LLC as
122-  2004   part of city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  8-17-  Authorizes transfer of land at 1866 Penrose Ave. to A.N. Seidu as part of
115-  2004   city’s land reutilization program.
04
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 14639 Elderwood Ave. to P. Target as part of
68-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 14649 Elderwood Ave. to P. Target as part of
69-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 14665 Elderwood Ave. to P. Target as part of
70-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 14709 Elderwood Ave. to P. Target as part of
71-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 14715 Elderwood Ave. to P. Target as part of
72-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizes transfer of land at 15002 Woodworm Ave. to H. Holmes as part of
75-05 2005   city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  7-19-  Authorizes exchange of city-owned property on Terrace Rd. (P.P.N. 673-10-023)
104-  2005   for property at 13416 Woodworth Ave. owned by North Coast Real Estate
05           Management, Ltd.
Ord.  10-5-  Authorizes transfer of rear section of city-owned land parcels at 1391, 1387
134-  2005   and 1385 Hayden Ave. to Erco Realty Co. as part of city’s land reutilization
05           program.
Ord.  11-1-  Authorized exchange of city-owned property at 13410 Second Ave. for property
157-  2005   owned by Community Temple Church of God at 13417 and 13413 Second Ave.
05
Ord.  11-1-  Authorizes purchase of four-dwelling unit apartment at 13518 Woodworth Ave.
173-  2005   from Fannie Mae.
05
Ord.  6-20-  Authorizes transfer of city-owned land (no address) on Terrace Rd. to Reverend
42-06 2006   and Mrs. L. Banks, Sr., as part of city’s land reutilization program.
Ord.  8-15-  Authorizes transfer of city-owned land at 15447 Terrace Rd. to New Vision
63-06 2006   Construction Corp. as part of city’s land reutilization program.
 
TABLE F:  LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No
Ord.  11-4-  Lease of part of property on Euclid Ave. appropriated from David Hawley.
2012  1925
Ord.  5-25-  Lease from Standard Oil Co. of land near Nickel Plate RR south of Elm Ave.
2116  1926   and Coit Rd. for park and playground purposes.
Ord.  5-6-   One year lease with Curtiss Construction Co. to operate junior golf courses
2522  1930   at NE corner of Euclid and Strathmore Aves.
Ord.  4-7-   One year lease with Tru-Putt Operating Co. for junior golf course at NE
2609  1931   corner of Euclid and Strathmore Aves.; repeals Ord. 2594.
Ord.  6-23-  Lease of city property on Euclid Ave. east of Taylor Rd.
2630  1931
Ord.  4-19-  Lease to McArthur of NE corner of Euclid and Strathmore Aves.
2712  1932
Ord.  5-17-  With NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR Co. for property on Holyoke Ave. for
2718  1932   playground purposes.
Ord.  6-28-  With Justh Mfg. Co. for property on Doan Ave. for playground purposes.
2729  1932
Ord.  7-26-  Modifies lease by Ord. 2630 with Frost for property on Euclid Ave.
2730  1932
Ord.  12-27- Modifies lease by Ord. 2712 with McArthur.
2764  1932
Ord.  3-14-  With Outdoor Recreations, Inc. for NE corner of Euclid and Strathmore Aves.
2775  1933
Ord.  9-26-  Extends Frost lease to 9-1-1934.
2813  1933
Ord.  3-13-  With Outdoor Recreations, Inc. for NE corner of Euclid and Strathmore Aves.
2839  1934
Ord.  10-9-  Two year lease with Frost for property on Euclid Ave. east of Taylor Rd.
2886  1934
Ord.  5-18-  To federal government for 1756 Eddy Rd.
3818  1943
Ord.  6-28-  With J.R. Watson for property on Nelacrest Ave. for playground purposes.
4338  1949
Ord.  4-6-   With Carmen Bill for the Shaw driving range.
4798  1954
Ord.  11-16- With Carmen Bill for the Shaw driving range.
4831  1954
Ord.  4-23-  With NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR for playground purposes.
5034  1956
Ord.  5-1-   Lease with Carmen Bill for the Shaw driving range.
4937  1956
Ord.  6-12-  With Cleveland Transit System.
4942  1956
Ord.  12-2-  With Cleveland Transit System.
5149  1958
Ord.  7-14-  With Cleveland Transit System.
5819  1959
Ord.  11-6-  With Cleveland Transit System.
5511  1963
Ord.  7-30-  With Penn. Central Co. for premises between Hower and Delmont Aves. for
5907  1968   playground purposes.
Ord.  8-13-  With Sun Oil Co. for premises at SE corner of Wadena St. and Euclid Ave.
5914  1968   for playground purposes.
Ord.  9-24-  With Cleveland Transit System for off-street parking for rapid transit
5920  1968   patrons.
Ord.  12-2-  Lease of 14312 Euclid Ave. with Realty and Securities Mgmt. Co.
6060  1969
Ord.  4-21-  With City of Cleveland Transit System for vacant lot on west side of Eddy
6125  1970   Rd.
Ord.  7-28-  With Minnie B. Taylor for store front at 1547 Hayden Ave.
6157  1970
Ord.  10-30- With CTS for off-street parking area.
6525  1973
Ord.  4-15-  Office space at 14441 Euclid Ave. from Heil’s Windermere Storage.
6717  1975
Ord.  1-20-  Off-street parking area from RTA.
6812  1976
Ord.  2-3-   Space in Human Services Center to Glenville Mental Health Action Corp.;
6817  1976   repeals Ord. 6741.
Ord.  1-18-  Leasing space in Human Services Center by Urban League of Greater
6956  1977   Cleveland.
Ord.  5-3-   Space in Human Services Center to Glenville Mental Health Action Corp;
6991  1977   repeals Section 1 of Ord. 6817.
Ord.  11-29- Space in Human Services Center by Urban League of Greater Cleveland.
7092  1977
Ord.  2-7-   With Glenville Mental Health Action Corp. for space in Human Services
7123  1978   Center and repealing Section 1 of Ord. 6817.
Ord.  10-17- With Superior-Euclid Community Development Corp. for rental of space at
7214  1978   Human Services Center.
Ord.  10-17- With the city’s Community Development Corp. for space at Human Services
7215  1978   Center.
Ord.  11-21- With Inland Refuse Transfer Co. for lease operation of city’s Solid Waste
7226  1978   Transfer Station.
Ord.  12-18- With East Cleveland Community Theatre, Inc. for off-street parking area.
7371  1979
Ord.  5-31-  Temporary use agreement for the city’s Civic Center, authorized for one
7641  1983   year.
Res.  8-13-  First floor of former American Legion building to Police Athletic League.
2164  1985
Res.  9-17-  Temporary use of office space in Human Services Building for Council for
2171  1985   Economic Opportunities in Greater Cleveland.
Res.  1-29-  Authorizes lease of Caledonia Park area as a public park.
3-91  1991
Ord.  2-15-  Authorizes lease of parcel at corner of Euclid Ave. and Roxford P.P. 672-
20-94 1994   24-08 to the Starlight Baptist Church.
Res.  10-17- Authorizes lease for premises at 15838-40 Euclid Ave. for police mini
109-  1995   station.
95
Res.  10-17-
110-  1995   Authorizes lease for premises at 1366 Hayden Ave., for police mini station.
95
Ord.  5-30-  Authorizes lease regarding the city-owned transfer station.
35-96 1996
Res.  2-4-   Authorizing a lease for premises located at 12829 Euclid Ave. for the
6-97  1997   creation of a police mini station.
Ord.  10-17- Authorizes lease with King Management Group, Ltd. (KMG) for premises at
162-  2000   13308 Euclid Ave. for use as domestic violence department.
00
Ord.  10-17- Authorizes lease with King Management Group, Ltd. (KMG) for premises at
163-  2000   13308 Euclid Ave. for use as police mini-station.
00
Ord.  5-4-   Authorizes lease with City Management Group, Ltd. (CMG) for premises used
59-04 2004   for Division of Water operations at 14441 Euclid Ave.; expires 2-28-2005.
Ord.  1-4-   Authorizes lease with City Management Group, Ltd. (CMG) for premises used
185-  2005   for Division of Water operations at 14441 Euclid Avenue; expires 2-28-2007.
04
Ord.  5-4-   Authorizes lease with City School District for press box/concession stand
56-04 2005   at Forest Hill Park Field #1.
Ord.  10-18- Authorizes lease with Eco-Site, Inc. for the construction of a wireless
14-16 2016   telephone tower at the city’s Martin Luther King Civic Center.
 
TABLE G:  STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  6-10-  Naming Euclid Ave.
7     1895
Ord.  9-16-  To widen Euclid Ave. to uniform width of 86 ft.
14    1895
Ord.  7-13-  Grade of Euclid Ave.
23    1896
Ord.  8-11-  Grade of curbing and sidewalks on Euclid Ave.
25    1896
Ord.  4-5-   Name change: part of Fernwood Ave. changed to Mt. Union St.
38    1897
Ord.  6-1-   Naming Shaw Ave.
39    1897
Ord.  9-27-  Grade of Mt. Union St. between Euclid Ave. and Fernwood St.
44    1897
Ord.  2-7-   Grade of Taylor Rd. from Euclid Ave. 1,000 ft. southeast therefrom.
51    1898
Ord.  3-21-  Grade of Chapman Ave. between Euclid Ave. and Collamer Ter.
56    1898
Ord.  3-21-  Grade of Hastings St. from Euclid Ave. 900 ft. southeast therefrom.
57    1898
Ord.  3-21-  Grade of Noble St. from Euclid Ave. 800 ft. southeast therefrom.
59    1898
Ord.  3-28-  Grade of Coit Ave. from Euclid Ave. to NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR.
64    1898
Ord.  4-11-  Grade of Wymore Ave. from Euclid Ave. 800 ft. southeast therefrom.
65    1898
Ord.  4-11-  Grade of Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. 800 ft. southeast therefrom.
66    1898
Ord.  4-11-  Grade of Superior St. from Euclid Ave. 2,200 ft. southeast therefrom.
67    1898
Ord.  9-12-  Grade of Knowles St. between Euclid Ave. and Collamer Ter.
83    1898
Ord.  5-22-  Grade of Woodlawn Ave. from Euclid Ave. to southern village limits.
94    1899
Ord.  10-9-  Grade of Windermere St. from Euclid Ave. to Windermere Ter.
118   1899
Ord.  10-9-  Grade of Holyoke Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Windermere Ter.
119   1899
Ord.  10-9-  Grade of Winderemere Ter. from Holyoke Ave. to Knowles St.
120   1899
Ord.  10-16- Grade of Mildred St. from Superior St. 754 ft. west therefrom.
121   1899
Ord.  3-5-   Grade of Lee Rd. from a point 800 ft. south of Euclid Ave. to Collamer Ter.
129   1900
Ord.  3-5-   Grade of Wymore St. from a point 800 ft. south of Euclid Ave. to Collamer Ter.
130   1900
Ord.  3-5-   Grade of Grasmere St. from Euclid Ave. to Terrace Rd.
131   1900
Ord.  3-19-  Grade of Stanwood Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Terrace Rd.
133   1900
Ord.  6-18-  Grade of Fay St.
148   1900
Ord.  6-25-  Name change; Collamer Ter. to Terrace Rd.
149   1900
Ord.  9-10-  Grade of Terrace Rd. from Wymore Ave. to Prospect St.
166   1900
Ord.  10-22- Name change: Andrews St. to Amherst St.
181   1900
Ord.  1-21-  Grade of Page Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Terrace Rd.; repeals Ord. 55.
185   1901
Ord.  9-16-  Name change: part of Holyoke Ave. between Euclid Ave. and Windermere Ter. to
204   1901   Belmore Rd.
Ord.  4-28-  Grade of Fernwood St. from Mt. Union to Vassar Sts.
219   1902
Ord.  3-23-  Grade of Wellesley St. from Euclid Ave. to Fernwood St.
238   1903
Ord.  7-13-  Grade of Lake View Ave. from Euclid Ave. to southern village limits.
248   1903
Ord.  7-20-  Grade of sidewalks on Woodlawn Ave. from Euclid Ave. to southern village
249   1903   limits.
Ord.  12-7-  Grade of Elsinore St. from Hayden to Euclid Aves.
255   1903
Ord.  8-15-  Grade of sidewalks on Holyoke Ave. from Euclid to Hayden Aves.
269   1904
Ord.  3-20-  Grade of Vassar St. from Euclid Ave. to Vassar St. southerly end.
289   1905
Ord.  4-17-  Grade of Garfield Ct. from Euclid Ave. to Garfield Ct. southerly end.
292   1905
Ord.  4-17-  Grade of Prospect St. from Euclid Ave. to Prospect St. southerly end; repeals
293   1905   Ord. 43.
Ord.  10-2-  Grade of sidewalk on Doan Ave., Taylor Rd., Elsinore St., Auburndale Ave. and
316   1905   Hastings Ave.
Ord.  12-18- Name change: Mildred St. to Forest Hill Ave.
322   1905
Ord.  5-7-   Roadway width of Hayden Ave. from Doan Ave. to Woodworth Rd.
330   1906
Ord.  10-5-  Name change: Cobden Ct. to Cobden Rd.
350   1906
Ord.  11-5-  Grade of sidewalks on Strathmore Ave. from Euclid Ave. to NY, Chicago and St.
351   1906   Louis RR.
Ord.  11-5-  Grade of Scioto Ave. from Hayden to Manhattan Aves.
352   1906
Ord.  4-15-  Sidewalk grade on Page Ave. from Euclid Ave. 550 ft. south.
364   1907
Ord.  7-1-   Name change: East Collamer St. to Collinwood Rd.
375   1907
Ord.  8-19-  Grade of Forest Hill Ave. from Superior St. to Rosalind Ave.
382   1907
Ord.  9-3-   Sidewalk grade of Noble Rd. from Euclid Ave. to southern village limits.
385   1907
Ord.  10-7-  Grade of Shaw Ave. from NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR to westerly village
390   1907   limits; repeals Ord. 218.
Ord.  10-7-  Sidewalk grade of Vassar St. between Euclid Ave. and Vassar St. southerly end.
391   1907
Ord.  11-18- Grade of Hayden Ave. from Lake Front Ave. to northeasterly village limits;
396   1907   repeals Ord. 150.
Ord.  5-26-  Grade of Weirfield St. from its easterly end to village limits.
410   1908
Ord.  6-23-  Amends Ord. 166 regarding grade of Terrace Rd.
447   1909
Ord.  6-23-  Grade of Stanwood Rd. from Terrace Rd. 855 ft. south.
448   1909
Ord.  9-14-  Amends Ord. 410 regarding grade of Wierfield St.
463   1909
Ord.  10-26- Grade of Terrace Rd. from Wymore St. 544 ft. east; repeals part of Ord. 447.
473   1909
Ord.  4-26-  Grade of Hayden Ave. from Woodworth Rd. to Lake Front Ave.
496   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Orinoco from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
504   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Potomac Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
506   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Kennebec Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
507   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Manhattan Ave. from Shaw Ave. to Manhattan Ave. westerly end.
508   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Allegheny Ave. from Shaw to Scioto Aves.
509   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Allegheny Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
510   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Missouri Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
511   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Scioto Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
512   1910
Ord.  6-14-  Grade of Savannah Ave. from 30 ft. east of Hayden Ave. to Manhattan Ave.
513   1910
Ord.  6-28-  Name change: Garfield Ct. to Garfield Rd.
516   1910
Ord.  6-28-  Grade of Superior St. from 43 ft. south of Euclid Ave. to southerly village
518   1910   limits.
Ord.  7-12-  Grade of Phillips St. from E. 125th St. 1,750 ft. east therefrom.
522   1910
Ord.  7-26-  Grade of Idlewood Ave. from Euclid to Forest Hill Aves.
524   1910
Ord.  7-26-  Grade of Phillips St. from Rozelle Ave. to 1,196 ft. north therefrom.
525   1910
Ord.  8-20-  Grade of Delmont Ave. from Euclid to Hower Aves.; repeals Ords. 303 and 359.
542   1910
Ord.  9-19-  Grade of Bender Ave. from Superior to Phillips Sts.
547   1910
Ord.  9-19-  Grade of Superior Ave. from Euclid Ave. to westerly village limits; repeals
550   1910   Ords. 62 and 388.
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Carlyon Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Superior St.
552   1910
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Lockwood Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Superior St.; repeals Ords. 92 and
553   1910   336.
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Hower Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Superior St.; repeals Ord. 58.
554   1910
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Auburadale Ave. from Euclid Ave. to northerly village limits; repeals
555   1910   Ord. 132.
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Lake View Ave. from Euclid Ave. to northerly village limits; repeals
556   1910   Ord. 70.
Ord.  9-20-  Grade of Elberon Ave. from Euclid to Hower Aves.; repeals Ords 298 and 335.
557   1910
Ord.  10-11- Grade of Elsinore St. from Euclid to Hayden Aves.; repeals Ord. 255.
565   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Holyoke from Euclid to Hayden Aves.; repeals Ord. 113.
566   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Lambert St. from Garfield Rd. to Superior St.
568   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade line of Eddy Rd. from Euclid Ave. to northerly village limits; repeals
570   1910   Ords. 318 and 340.
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Lake Front Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Eddy Rd.; repeals Ords. 69, 144
572   1910   and 195.
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Doan Ave. from Euclid to Hayden Aves.; repeals Ords. 54 and 225.
573   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Northfleld St. from Euclid to Manhattan Aves.
574   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Strathmore Ave. from Euclid to Manhattan Aves.; repeals Ord. 301.
575   1910
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Shaw Ave. from Euclid Ave. to westerly village limits; repeals Ords.
576   1910   61, 431 and 470.
Ord.  11-9-  Grade of Collinwood Rd. from Euclid Ave. to northerly village limits.
578   1910
Ord.  4-12-  Grade of Pitney St. from Coit Ave. to northerly city limits.
612   1911
Ord.  4-25-  Grade of Hower Ave. from Superior St. 974 ft. south therefrom.
617   1911
Ord.  4-25-  Grade of N. Lockwood St. from Superior to Phillips Sts.
618   1911
Ord.  4-25-  Grade of Coit Ave. from Euclid Ave. to northerly city limits; repeals Ord. 515.
620   1911
Ord.  5-9-   Grade of St. Clair Ave.
621   1911
Ord.  6-13-  Grade of Alder Aye. from Coit Ave. to Alder Ave. westerly end.
627   1911
Ord.  6-13-  Grade of Elm Ave. from Coit Ave. to Elm Ave. westerly end.
628   1911
Ord.  6-13-  Grade of Eastham Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Eastham Ave. northerly end.
630   1911
Ord.  6-27-  Grade of Forest Hill Ave. from Rosalind Ave. to Alva Jones Subdivision.
635   1911
Ord.  7-25-  Amends Ord. 518 regarding grade of Superior St.
644   1911
Ord.  9-26-  Grade of Taylor Rd. from a point 900 ft. south of Euclid Ave. to southerly city
656   1911   limits.
Ord.  4-23-  Grade of Hayden Ave. from Lake Front Ave. to Eddy Rd.
711   1912
Ord.  4-23-  Grade of Lee Rd. from Euclid Ave. to Terrace Rd.
712   1912
Ord.  6-11-  Grade of Shaw Place from Shaw Ave. to Shaw Place westerly end.
719   1912
Ord.  6-11-  Name change: Missouri Ave. to Strathmore Ave.; Kennebec Ave. to Northfield Ave.
720   1912
Ord.  12-24- Name change: Wierfield St. to Forest Hill Ave.
756   1912
Ord.  3-11-  Name change: Collinwood Rd. to Ivanhoe Rd.
770   1913
Ord.  3-11-  Name change: Stafford St. to Holyoke Ave.
771   1913
Ord.  5-13-  Grade of Beaumont St. from Hayden Ave. to Thatcher St.
773   1913
Ord.  6-10-  Name change: Mississippi Ave. to Ardenall Ave.
778   1913
Ord.  7-22-  Grade of Woodworm Rd. from St. Clair Ave. to Coit Rd.; repeals Ord. 619.
780   1913
Ord.  8-12-  Name change: Highland Park Ave. to Nela Ave.
783   1913
Ord.  10-14- Name change: Winona St. to E. 129th St.; Oswega St. to E. 130th St.; Oneida St.
792   1913   to E. 131st St.
Ord.  12-9-  Grade of Stafford Place from Lake Front to Holyoke Aves.
802   1913
Ord.  12-9-  Grade of Holyoke Ave. from Hayden Ave. to Stafford Place.
803   1913
Ord.  4-20-  Grade of Holyoke Ave. from Hayden Ave. to Stafford Place.
823   1914
Ord.  4-20-  Grade of Thatcher St. from Shaw to Gainsboro Ave.
824   1914
Ord.  8-17-  Grade of Cobden Ct. from Lockwood St. 350 ft. east therefrom.
841   1914
Ord.  9-21-  Grade of Grand View Ter. from Stanwood Rd. to Flora S. Mather property.
847   1914
Ord.  11-10- Name change: Guilford Rd. to Van Buren Rd.
860   1914
Ord.  9-20-
910-  1915   Grade of Collamer Ave. from Euclid to Pitney Aves.; repeals Ord. 577.
1/2
Ord.  3-6-   Grade of Euclid Ave.
935   1916
             Name change: Hower Ave. between Superior Ave. and the angle south to E. 125th
             St.; Phillips St. between Superior Ave. and Eddy Rd. to E. 131st St.; Hayden
Ord.  5-6-   Ave. between Eddy Rd. and Doan Ave. to Phillips St.; Doan Ave. between Hayden
1088  1918   and Stuyvesant Ave., and Stuyvesant Ave. from Doan to Manhattan Aves., to
             Bardwell Ave.; Taylor Rd. between Coit Rd. and angle turning south to Elderwood
             Ave.
Ord.  7-25-  Name change: Mannheim Ave. to Mann Ave.
1112  1918
Ord.  10-18- Name change: Prospect St. to Shaw Ave.
1530  1921
Ord.  9-26-  Sidewalk grade on Superior Ave. from Carlyon Rd. to Lockwood Ave.
1632  1922
Ord.  12-19- Grade of Terrace Rd. between Shaw and Nela View Aves.
1650  1922
Ord.  6-11-  Name change: Doan Ave. between Bardwell and Euclid Aves., and Bardwell Ave.
1722  1923   between Doan and Hayden Aves., to Hayden Ave.
Ord.  10-23- Name change: Hayden Ave. between Euclid Ave. and Phillips St. to Doan Ave.
1758  1923
Ord.  10-23- Name change: Phillips St. between Hayden Ave. and Eddy Rd., and E. 131st St.
1759  1923   between Eddy Rd. and Superior Ave. to Hayden Ave.
Ord.  2-26-  Grade of Coit Ave. from Alder Ave. to Woodworth Rd.
1792  1924
Ord.  3-25-  Grade of Stanwood Rd.; from Hazel Rd. to easterly city limits.
1802  1924
Ord.  6-3-   Name change: Stafford Place between Holyoke and Lake Front Aves. to E. 133 Rd.
1850  1924   St.
Ord.  6-3-   Grade of Superior Rd. from Euclid Ave. 600 ft. south therefrom.
1852  1924
Ord.  11-4-  Grade of Nela Ave. from Euclid Ave. to Terrace Rd.
2013  1925
Ord.  12-15- Name change: Stanwood Rd. between Terrace Rd. and Wainwright Blvd. and
2041  1925   Wainwright Blvd. to Stanwood Rd.
Ord.  12-15- Name change: Stanwood Rd. extension to Oakhill Rd.
2042  1925
Ord.  10-5-  Grade of Taylor Rd. from Terrace Rd. to easterly city limits.
2158  1926
Ord.  12-4-  Grade of Superior Ave. from Euclid Ave. to E. 125th St.
2372  1928
Ord.  12-18- Name change: Shaw Place to Elderwood Ave.
2374  1928
Ord.  1-29-  Grades of portions of Coventry Rd. Luxor Rd. and Mont Ave.
2386  1929
Ord.  4-23-  Grade of Delmont Ave. from Euclid Ave. to E. 125th St.
2406  1929
Ord.  9-10-  Name change: Buston Rd. between Lee Rd. and easterly city limits to Brewster
2468  1929   Rd. and Laurel Dr. between Bruxton Rd. and southerly city limits to Newbury Dr.
Ord.  9-10-  Name change: Dartmoor St. between Roxford Rd. and Marloes Ave. to Roxford Rd.
2471  1929
Ord.  2-11-  Name change: Kirke Place between Hillside and Nela Aves. to Hillside Ave.
2494  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Cleivden Rd. from Newbury Dr. to Brewster Rd.
2532  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Fenemore Rd. from Newbury Dr. to Brewster Rd.
2533  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Brewster Rd. from Lee Rd. to easterly city limits.
2534  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Forest Hills Blvd. from Lee Rd. to easterly city limits.
2535  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Henley Rd. from Lee to Brewster Rds.
2536  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Mt. Vernon Blvd. from Abeyton Realty Corp’s. Forest Hills Subdivison
2537  1930   to easterly city limits.
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Newbury Dr. from Brewster Rd. to southerly city limits.
2538  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Northvale Blvd. from Forest Hills Blvd. to easterly city limits.
2539  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Walden Rd. from Cleviden Rd. to southerly city limits.
2540  1930
Ord.  5-27-  Grade of Wayatt Rd. from Newbury Dr. to Mt. Vernon Blvd.
2541  1930
Ord.  8-26-  Grade of Belvoir Blvd. from northerly to easterly city limits.
2559  1930
Ord.  4-21-  Name change: Lee Rd. between Euclid Ave. and southerly city limits to Lee Blvd.
2610  1931
Ord.  1-28-  Grade of Forest Hills Blvd. from Euclid Ave. to Lee Blvd.
3022  1936
Ord.  1-28-  Grade of Terrace Rd. from Superior to Belmore Rds.
3023  1936
Ord.  3-24-  Grade of Terrace Rd. from Belmore Rd. 383 ft. SW therefrom.
3047  1936
Ord.  4-7-   Sidewalk grade on southerly side of Terrace Rd. from 90 ft. west of Windermere
3055  1936   St. to 100 ft. west of Beersford Rd.
Ord.  9-28-  Name change: N. Noble Rd. between Euclid Ave. and NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR,
4286  1948   and Woodworth Ave. extension between NY, Chicago and St. Louis RR and E. 152nd
             St. to Noble Rd.
Ord.  6-13-  Grade of Penrose Ave. from Euclid Ave. to southerly city limits; repeals Ord.
4444  1950   89.
Ord.  6-13-  Grade of Brightwood St. between Euclid and Forest Hill Aves.; repeals Ord. 95.
4445  1950
Ord.  11-29- Names Island Rd. in Forest Hill Subdivision.
4896  1955
Ord.  12-14- Name change: Allendale Ave. between Euclid and Elderwood Aves. to Allandale
5686  1965   Ave.
Res.  11-1-
170-  2005   Name change: Bryn Mawr Rd. to Debra Ann Lane.
05
Ord.  12-20-
193-  2005   Amends Sec. 1 of Res. 170-05; renames portion of Bryn Mawr Rd.
05
Ord.  6-4-   Name change: Forest Hills Boulevard to Forest Hill Boulevard.
26-19 2019
            
 
TABLE H:  ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 68       4-11-1898   Authorizes annexation of Original Lots 366 and 373
                          and part of Lot 365 (land south of St. Clair St.).
Ord. 1439     1-3-1921    Annexation application for Original Twp. Lots 12 and
                          13.
 
TABLE I:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  10-19- Border property between Coit and Collamer Aves., south of Nickel Plate RR from
4822  1954   U2 to U4 for commercial uses.
Ord.  10-19- Consumer Cigarette Service Co. between Coit and Collamer Aves. north of Euclid
4823  1954   Ave. from U3 to U4 for wholesale tobacco business.
Ord.  5-3-   NE corner of E. 131st St. and Eddy Rd. from U4 to U3 Use District.
4864  1955
Ord.  8-9-   Sublots 16 to 22 and 28 to 35 of Apartment Realty Co. Subdivision from U2 to U1
4876  1955   Use District.
Ord.  7-24-  Certain premises fronting on Wadena St. and Forest Hill Ave. from A1 to A2 Area
4958  1956   District.
Ord.  7-30-  Wedge shaped parcel with frontage of 438 ft. on easterly side of Hayden Ave.
5048  1957   from U4 to U2 Use District.
Ord.  2-25-  SE corner of Euclid and Rosalind Aves. (part of County Parcel 672-17-1) from U1
5089  1958   to U3 Use District.
Ord.  3-11-  Parcel fronting 100 ft. on SW side of Allendale Ave. (County Parcels 673-12-48
5095  1958   and 673-12-49) from B1 to B2 Building Line District.
Ord.  12-2-  Part of Original Twp. Lot 5 and Parcel G of lands conveyed to city by J.D.
5146  1958   Rockefeller, Jr. from U1 to U2 District, A1 to A3 Area District and H1 to H5
             Height District.
Ord.  8-25-  Part of County Parcel 673-11-15 on Taylor Rd. from U2 to U3 Use District.
5197  1959
Ord.  10-20- Parcel fronting 52 ft. on SW side of Noble Rd. from U2 to U3 Use District.
5209  1959
             Parcel No. 2 on SW side of Nela Ave. (Sublot 29 and part of Sublot 30 on
             Windermere Realty Co’s. Highland Park Allotment) from U2 to U3 Use District and
Ord.  3-22-  H2 to H3 Height District; Parcel  Nos. 1 and 3 on Noble Rd. (part of Original
5242  1960   Twp. Lot 44) limited to uses permitted in U1 or U2 Use District and to office
             buildings or parking accessory uses (except those offices on County Parcel 673-
             13-1 which are also a part of Parcel Nos. 1 and 2.)
Ord.  4-8-   Part of Original Twp. Lot 4 on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U2 to U3 Use
5247  1960   District and H2 to H3 Height District.
Ord.  7-26-  Central portion of County Parcel 673-6-15 being part of Original Twp; Lot 4
5271  1960   from U2 to U3 Use District and H2 to H3 Height District.
Ord.  7-26-  County Parcels 673-11-8 and 673-11-9 on SE side of Euclid Ave. from U2 to U3
5272  1960   Use District and H2 to H3 Height District.
Ord.  11-1-  Part of Original Twp. Lot 382 (parcel beginning 200 ft. NW of NW side of Emily
5289  1960   St. and extension of rear property line of 1750-1754 Fay St.) from U4 to U3 Use
             District.
Ord.  2-7-   Part of Original Twp. Lot 11, Tract 8 on NW side of Endora Rd. from U2 to U1
5312  1961   Use District and A2 to A1 Area District.
Ord.  3-7-   Part of Original Twp. Lot 44 (part of County Parcel 673-3-53) on NE side of
5316  1961   Allendale Ave. from U1 to U2 Use District, H1 to H2 Height District and B1 to
             B2 Building Line District.
Ord.  5-31-  Setback on SW side of Ivanhoe Rd. from Euclid Ave. to NW city limits changed
5328  1961   from ten to five ft.
Ord.  7-11-  County Parcels 673-18-45, 673-18-46 and 673-18-51 at intersection of SE line of
5333  1961   Terrace Rd. and NE line of Allendale Ave. from U1 to U2 Use District, A1 to A3
             Area District and H1 to H5 Height District.
Ord.  8-8-   County Parcels 671-7-1 and 671-7-20 on SW side of Doan Ave. from A2 to A3 Area
5337  1961   District.
Ord.  10-3-  Parcel F (of lands conveyed to C. Bernstein by Ord. 4033) on Superior Rd. from
5346  1961   H4 to H7 Height District.
Ord.  10-3-  County Parcels 673-12-4 and 673-12-5 on SE side of Euclid Ave. between Noble
5347  1961   Rd. and Allandale Ave. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  10-3-  Part of Sublot 2 in Windermere Realty Co’s. Euclid Ave. Allotment on NE side of
5348  1961   Rosalind Ave. from U1 to U3 Use District.
Ord.  10-3-  Sublots 1 to 8 and 49 to 56 fronting on Ravine Dr. in C. J. Phyper’s Ravine
5349  1961   Park Subdivision from A2 to A1 Area District.
Ord.  2-13-  Sublot 336 and north half of Sublot 337 in Lakeview Land and Improvement Co’s.
5377  1962   Subdivision on east side of E. 125th St. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  5-9-   Premises described in Ord. 5333 from H5 to H10 Height District.
5388  1962
Ord.  5-9-   County Parcels 673-4-57 and 673-4-59 at intersection of SW line of Taylor Rd.
5389  1962   and NW line of Euclid Ave. from U3, A3 and H3 to U3, A3, H4 and from U2, A3, H3
             to U2, A3, H4 District; repeals Ord. 5375.
Ord.  5-9-   Part of Original Twp. Lots 44 and 45 on Taylor Rd. from A2 to A3 Area District.
5390  1962
Ord.  5-22-  SE portion of County Parcel 672-15-4 fronting 60 ft. on Roxbury Rd. from U1 to
5391  1962   U2 Use District and A1 to A3 Area District; NW portion of County Parcel 672-15-
             4 fronting 50 ft. on Euclid Ave. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  6-5-   County Parcel 673-19-82 fronting 39 ft. on SW side of Noble Rd. from U2 to U3
5394  1962   Use District.
Ord.  8-14-  Parcel F (conveyed to C. Bernstein by Ord. 4033) on Superior Rd. from H7 to H10
5409  1962   Height District.
Ord.  10-23- Part of Original Twp. Lot 3 on south side of Woodworth Ave. from A2 to A3 Area
5425  1962   District.
Ord.  12-4-  Part of County Parcel 671-19-53 on north side of Elm Ave. from U1 to U3 Use
5433  1962   District.
Ord.  12-18- County Parcels 672-1-27 and 672-1-28 on west side of Hower Ave. from A2 to A3
5437  1962   Area District.
Ord.  1-15-  County Parcel 673-11-86 at intersection of SE line of Euclid Ave. and NE line
5443  1963   of Hastings Ave. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  1-15-  Part of Original Lot 390 on SW side of Superior Rd. from A2 to A3 Area
5444  1963   District.
Ord.  5-9-   County Parcel 673-12-79 on west side of Noble Rd. from U2 to U3 Use District.
5461  1963
Ord.  5-21-  County Parcel 672-26-03 (Sublot 3 of Apartment Realty Co’s. Subdivision on West
5476  1963   side of Superior Rd.) from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  6-18-  County Parcels 672-17-5, 672-17-6 and 672-17-7 at SE corner of Euclid Ave. and
5482  1963   Garfield Rd. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  9-24-  County Parcels 673-11-26, 673-11-27, 673-11-28, 673-11-29 and 673-11-30 on NW
5498  1963   side of Terrace Rd. from A2 to A3 Area District.
Ord.  12-17- County Parcels 673-3-47 and 673-3-48 fronting on NW side of Euclid Ave. from A2
5516  1963   to A3 Area District.
Ord.  1-28-  County Parcel 671-1-176 fronting on west side of Hayden Ave. from A2 to A3 Area
5528  1964   District.
Ord.  1-28-  County Parcels 673-20-4 and 673-20-5 near SE prolongation of SW line of
5529  1964   Hastings Ave. from U1 to U2 Use District, A2 to A3 Area District and H1 to H8
             Height District.
Ord.  2-25-  County Parcels 673-3-47 and 673-3-48 fronting on NW side of Euclid Ave. from A2
5533  1964   to A3 Area District; repeals Ord. 5516.
Ord.  3-12-  Part of County Parcel 672-12-28 fronting 42 ft. on NE side of Bryn Mawr Rd.
5537  1964   from U2 to U3 Use District.
Ord.  3-12-  County Parcel 673-19-50 fronting 50 ft. on north side of Ravine Dr. from A1 to
5538  1964   A2 Area District.
Ord.  3-12-  County Parcels 672-1-27 and 672-1-28 on west side of Hower Ave. from A3 to A2
5539  1964   Area District; repeals Ord. 5437.
Ord.  4-21-  Part of Original Lot 389 at intersection of Euclid and Auburndale Aves., from
5548  1964   U5, A1, H3, U4 ,A2, H3 and U2, A2, H2 to U6, A2, H3 District.
Ord.  8-31-  SW portion of County Parcel 673-14-2 on NE side of Hillsboro Rd. from U1 to U3
5569  1964   Use District.
Ord.  8-31-  County Parcels 673-1-8, 673-1-9 and 673-1-10 on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U3
5574  1964   and U5 to U4 Use District.
             Parcel A on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U3, A2, H3 to U4, A2, H2 District;
Ord.  10-6-  Parcel B on SW line of County Parcel 673-6-16 from U2, A2, H2 to U4, A2, H2
5577  1964   District; Parcel C on SE side of Elderwood Ave. re-established as U2, A2, H2
             District; repeals Ord. 5267.
Ord.  10-20- County Parcel 673-6-19 fronting 93 ft. on north side of Euclid Ave. from A2 to
5584  1964   A3 Area District.
Ord.  3-9-   County Parcel 673-6-20 fronting 93 ft. on north side of Euclid Ave. from A2 to
5616  1965   A3 Area District.
Ord.  6-1-   Parts of County Parcels 673-1-11 and 673-1-12 on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U3
5635  1965   to U4 Use District.
Ord.  8-24-  Parts of County Parcels 673-2-4 and 673-2-5 fronting 54.5 ft. on NE side of
5659  1965   Coit Ave. from U2 to U4 Use District.
             Parcel A being County Parcel 673-2-50 on NE side of Coit Ave. from U2, A2, H2
             to U4, A2, H3 District; Parcel B consisting of County Parcels 673-2-45, 673-2-
Ord.  9-24-  46 and 673-2-49 on NE side of Coit Ave. from U4, A2, H3 to U2, A2, H2 District
5667  1965   and County Parcel 673-2-51 from U4, A2, H2 to U2, A2, H2; Parcel C being County
             Parcel 673-2-17 on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U2, A2, H2 to U3, A2, H3
             District.
Ord.  11-30- County Parcels 673-5-18 and 673-5-19 on SW side of Shaw Ave.
5680  1965
Ord.  12-28- County Parcels 672-8-17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 29, 30 and portions of 672-8-8, 9, 15
5688  1965   and 16 on NW side of Euclid Ave. from U2, A2, H2, U3, A2, H2 and U3, A2, H3 to
             U4, A2, H2 District.
Ord.  5-17-  Part of County Parcel 673-12-53 beginning at a point 184 ft. NE from NE line of
5726  1966   Allandale Ave. along SE line of County Parcels 673-12-52 and 673-12-8 from U2
             to U3 Use District.
Ord.  7-12-  Part of County Parcel 672-15-67 on NE side of Wadena St. from U2 to U3 Use
5737  1966   District.
Ord.  10-4-  County Parcel 671-1-181 on west side of Hayden Ave. from U3 to U4 Use District.
5768  1966
Ord.  3-26-  Amends Ord. 5529 regarding zoning map change on Hastings Ave.
5885  1968
Ord.  11-6-  Permanent Parcel No. 671-17-51 fronting 40 ft. on SE side of Coit Ave. from U2,
5934  1968   A2, H2 to U3, A2, H2 District.
Ord.  3-25-  Permanent Parcel Nos. 672-23-11 through 17 and westerly 40 ft. of Parcel No. 10
5981  1969   from U1, A1, H1 to U2, A3, H4 District.
Ord.  4-22-  Southerly part of Permanent Parcel No. 672-9-14 from U2 to U4 Use District.
5984  1969
Ord.  6-17-  Permanent Parcel No. 673-18-1 from U2, A2, H2 to U3, A2, H2 Use District.
5998  1969
Ord.  10-21- Part of Sublots 17 and 18 and all of sublots 19 and 20 in the Darius Adams
6049  1969   Allotment of part of Original Euclid Twp. Lot 44 on Coit Rd. from H3 to H8
             Height District.
Ord.  1-27-  Southerly part of Auditor’s Parcel 672-12-15 on Euclid Ave. from A2 to A3 Area
6094  1970   District and from H3 and H4 to H11 Height District.
Ord.  5-6-   County Auditor’s Parcel 672-8-4, 5 and 6 on Superior Ave. from A2 to A3 Area
6127  1970   District and from H2 to H4 Height District.
Ord.  8-25-  County Auditor’s Parcels 673-22-6 and 673-22-15 on Terrace Rd. from A1 to A2
6162  1970   Area District, H1 to H4 Height District and B1 to B2 Building Line District.
Ord.  5-30-  County Auditor’s Parcels 673-22-6 and 673-22-15, from A2 to A1 Area District,
6369  1972   H4 to H1 Height District.
Ord.  7-25-  County Auditor’s Parcel 673-18-1 from U3 to U2 District.
6383  1972
Ord.  2-1-   Permanent Parcel Nos. 671-01-178 and 671-01-179 from U3 to U4.
6962  1977
Ord.  5-2-   Rezoning Permanent Parcels 672-20-41 through 672-20-56 inclusive, 672-21-1 and
7149  1978   672-21-2 by changing the Use District classification from U1 to U4 and Height
             District classification from H1 to H2; M9.
Ord.  1-19-  Rezones Permanent Parcel 672-01-026 from U2 to U3 M-80.
7538  1982
 
TABLE J:  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 20-09    2-17-2009   Approving abatement of a nuisance at 1880 Taylor Rd.
Ord. 63-09    9-1-2009    Approving abatement of a nuisance at 15720 Euclid
                          Ave.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section      Code Section
1.01              101.01
1.02(A)           101.02
1.02(B)           101.02
1.02(D)           101.02
1.02(E)           101.02
1.02(F)           101.02
1.02(G)           101.02
1.14              101.03
1.15              101.03
1.23              101.05
1.42              101.03
1.43              101.03
1.44              101.03
1.45              101.03
1.46              101.06
1.47              101.07
1.48              101.07
1.49              101.07
1.50              101.08
1.51              101.06
1.52              101.06
1.54              101.04
1.55              101.05
1.56              101.05
1.57              101.04
1.58              101.04
1.59(B)           101.02
1.59(C)           101.02
1.59(E)           101.02
1.59(F)           101.02
1.59(G)           101.02
1.59(J)           101.02
128.32            537.12
701.01(E)         101.02
901.51            541.06
901.99(A)         541.06
959.02            505.07
959.03            505.07
959.13            505.08
959.131           505.08
959.99(B)         505.07
959.99(C)         505.07
959.99(D)         505.08
959.99(E)         505.08
2901.01           501.01
2901.02           501.02
2901.03           501.03
2901.04           501.04
2901.11           501.05
2901.13           501.06
2901.21           501.07
2901.22           501.08
2901.23           501.11
2901.24           501.12
2903.05           537.01
2903.08           537.021
2903.08(A)(3)     537.02
2903.08(B)        549.13
2903.08(C)(3)     537.02
2903.08(D)(3)     537.02
2903.08(E) - (G)  537.02
2903.13           537.03
2903.14           537.04
2903.21           537.05
2903.211          537.051
2903.22           537.06
2905.03           537.08
2905.05           537.17
2905.12           537.09
2907.01           533.01
2907.04           533.03
2907.06           533.04
2907.08           533.06
2907.09           533.07
2907.23           533.08
2907.24(A)        533.09
2907.24(C)(1)     533.09
2907.24(D)        533.09
2907.24(E)        533.09
2907.25           533.10
2907.31           533.11
2907.311          533.15
2907.33           533.13
2907.35           533.02
2909.03           541.02
2909.06           541.03,
                  541.09
2909.08(B)        549.13
2909.09           541.03,
                  541.09
2909.10           553.04
2909.101          553.04
2909.11(B)        541.01
2909.11(C)        541.01
2909.11(D)        541.01
2909.31           525.17
2911.21           541.05
2911.211          541.051
2911.23           541.10
2911.32           545.12
2913.01           545.01
2913.02           545.05
2913.03           545.06
2913.04           545.08
2913.11           545.09
2913.21           545.10
2913.31(B)        545.20
2913.31(C)(2)     545.20
2913.32           545.13
2913.33           545.11
2913.42           545.14
2913.43           545.15
2913.44           545.16
2913.441          525.14
2913.45           545.17
2913.47           545.07
2913.51           545.18
2913.61(B)        545.02
2913.61(C)        545.02
2913.61(D)        545.02
2913.61(E)        545.02
2913.71           545.03
2915.01           517.01
2915.02(A)        517.02
2915.02(B)        517.02
2915.02(C)        517.02
2915.02(D)        517.02
2915.02(E)        517.02
2915.02(F)        517.02
2915.02(G)        517.02
2915.02(K)        517.02
2915.03           517.03
2915.04           517.04
2915.05           517.05
2915.06           517.15
2915.061          517.15
2915.09           517.06
2915.091          517.07
2915.092          517.08
2915.093          517.09
2915.094          517.10
2915.10           517.11
2915.11           517.12
2915.12           517.13
2915.13           517.09,
                  517.14
2917.03           509.01
2917.031          509.01
2917.04           509.02
2917.11           509.03
2917.12           509.04
2917.13           509.05
2917.21           537.10,
                  537.11
2917.211          533.17
2917.31           509.06
2917.32           509.07
2917.41           509.08
2919.21           537.20
2919.22(A)        537.07
2919.22(B)        537.07
2919.22(C)        537.07
2919.22(D)        537.07
2919.22(E)        537.07
2919.22(H)        537.07
2919.23           537.21
2919.24           537.18
2919.25           537.14
2919.27           537.15,
                  537.051
2921.01           501.01,
                  525.01
2921.13           525.02
2921.15           525.16
2921.21           525.04
2921.22           525.05
2921.23           525.06
2921.29           525.17
2921.31           525.07
2921.32           525.08
2921.33           525.09
2921.331          303.01
2921.42           525.10
2921.43           525.11
2921.44           525.12
2921.45           525.13
2923.02           501.09
2923.03           501.10
2923.11           549.01
2923.12           549.02
2923.1211(B),(C)  549.16
2923.1212         549.16
2923.122(C) - (G) 549.15
2923.126          549.16
2923.15           549.04
2923.16           549.05
2923.162          549.11
2923.18           549.06
2923.19           549.07
2923.20           549.08
2923.201          549.17
2923.211          549.09
2923.24           545.19,
                  549.14
2925.01           513.01
2925.12           513.04
2925.31           513.07
2925.33           513.11
2925.34           513.17
2925.36(A) - (C)  513.08
2925.37(A)        513.13
2925.37(G)        513.13
2927.02           537.16
2927.021          537.16
2927.022          537.16
2927.023          537.16
2927.11           541.07
2927.12           541.08
2927.21           505.11
2929.21           501.99
2929.23           533.99
2935.041          545.04
2950.034          533.16
3701.82           521.08
3701.99(B)        521.08
3716.11           537.13
3716.99(C)        537.13
3719.172          513.10
3719.08(A)        513.09
3719.08(E)        513.09
3719.99(C)        513.09
3719.99(D)        513.10
3737.34           1501.04
3737.61           1501.06
3737.62           1501.07
3737.63           1501.08
3737.64           1501.09
3737.65           1501.10
3743.01           549.12,
                  1519.01
3743.54           549.12,
                  1519.02
3743.60(E) - (J)  549.12
3743.61(E) - (J)  549.12
3743.63           549.12
3743.64           549.12,
                  1519.03
3743.65           1519.04
3743.65(A) - (E)  549.12
3743.66           549.12
3743.68(B)        549.12
3743.80           549.12,
                  1519.05
3743.99(C)        1519.99
3743.99(C),(D)    549.12
3767.13           521.07
3767.29           521.01
3767.99(B)        521.01
3767.99(C)        521.07
3781.11           1501.12
3781.55           533.07
3791.01           1301.04
3791.02           1301.04
3791.03           1301.04
3791.04           1301.04
4301.01           529.01
4301.22           529.03
4301.62           529.07
4301.63           529.021
4301.631          529.06
4301.632          529.021
4301.634          529.021
4301.64           529.04
4301.69           529.02
4301.99           529.02,
                  529.04
4303.21           529.05
4303.25           529.05
4501.01(LL)       301.01
4503.11           335.10
4503.11(A)        335.09
4503.11(D)        335.09
4503.111(A)       335.09
4503.111(B)       335.09
4503.111(C)       335.09
4503.12(A)        335.09
4503.12(D)        335.09
4503.21(A)        335.09
4503.21(B)        335.09
4503.21(C)        335.09
4505.18           335.08
4506.01           341.01
4506.03           341.03
4506.04(A)        341.04
4506.04(B)        341.04
4506.04(C)        341.04
4506.12(I)        341.04
4506.12(J)        341.04
4506.15           341.05
4506.20           341.06
4507.05(F)        335.03
4507.05(I)        335.03
4507.071(B)       335.031
4507.071(C)       335.031
4507.071(D)       335.031
4507.071(E)       335.031
4507.071(F)       335.031
4507.071(G)       335.031
4507.071(H)       335.031
4507.071(I)       335.031
4507.071(J)       335.031
4507.213          335.011
4507.30           335.04
4510.07           537.02
4510.14           335.071
4511.01           301.01
4511.03           331.20
4511.04           303.04
4511.041          303.041
4511.042          303.041
4511.05           303.05
4511.051          303.06
4511.091          303.08
4511.12(A)        313.01
4511.12(B)        313.01
4511.121(A)       313.01
4511.121(B)       313.01
4511.121(C)       313.01
4511.121(D)       313.01
4511.121(E)       313.01
4511.13           313.03,
                  313.06
4511.131          313.04
4511.132          313.09
4511.14           313.05
4511.16           313.07
4511.17           313.08
4511.18           313.10
4511.20           333.02
4511.201          333.02
4511.202          333.08
4511.21(A)        333.03
4511.21(B)        333.03
4511.21(C)        333.03
4511.21(D)        333.03
4511.21(E)        333.03
4511.21(F)        333.03
4511.21(G)        333.03
4511.21(O)        333.03
4511.21(P)        333.03
4511.22           333.04
4511.23           333.05
4511.24           333.06
4511.25           331.01
4511.251          333.07
4511.26           331.02
4511.27           331.03
4511.28           331.04
4511.29           331.05
4511.30           331.06
4511.31           331.07
4511.32           331.30
4511.33           331.08
4511.34           331.09
4511.35           331.31
4511.36           331.10
4511.37           331.12
4511.38           331.13
4511.39           331.14
4511.40           331.15
4511.41           331.16
4511.42           331.17
4511.43(A)        331.19
4511.43(B)        331.18
4511.431          331.23
4511.44           331.22
4511.441          371.07
4511.45           331.21
4511.451          331.24
4511.452          371.08
4511.454          331.21
4511.46           371.01
4511.47           371.02
4511.48           371.03
4511.481          371.09
4511.49           371.04
4511.491          371.11
4511.50           371.05
4511.51           371.06
4511.511          371.10
4511.52           373.01
4511.521          373.10
4511.522          373.14
4511.53           373.02
4511.54           373.03
4511.55           373.04
4511.56           373.05,
                  373.06
4511.60           331.29
4511.61           331.40
4511.62           331.38
4511.63           331.40
4511.661          351.05
4511.67           351.13
4511.68           351.02
4511.69           351.04
4511.70           331.25,
                  351.06
4511.701          331.35
4511.71(A)        331.26
4511.71(B)        331.26
4511.711          331.37
4511.712          331.33
4511.714(A)       331.26
4511.714(B)       331.26
4511.714(C)       331.26
4511.714(D)       331.26
4511.72           331.27
4511.73           331.28
4511.74           311.01
4511.75           331.38
4511.81           337.26
4511.82           331.42
4511.84           331.43
4511.99           333.031
4511.991          303.99
4513.02           337.01
4513.021          337.29
4513.03           337.02
4513.04           337.03
4513.05           337.04
4513.06           337.05
4513.07           337.06
4513.071          337.24
4513.08           337.07
4513.09           337.08
4513.10           337.09
4513.11           337.10
4513.11(I)        337.10
4513.111          337.10
4513.111(E)       337.10
4513.12           337.11
4513.13           337.12
4513.14           337.13
4513.15           337.14
4513.16           337.15
4513.17           337.16
4513.19           337.17
4513.20           337.18
4513.21           337.19
4513.22           337.20
4513.23           337.21
4513.24           337.22
4513.241(C)       337.28
4513.241(D)       337.28
4513.241(E)       337.28
4513.241(F)       337.28
4513.241(G)       337.28
4513.241(H)       337.28
4513.241(I)       337.28
4513.241(J)       337.28
4513.241(K)       337.28
4513.263          337.27
4513.29           339.06
4513.30           337.23
4513.31           339.08
4513.32           339.07
4513.33           339.14
4513.34           339.01
4513.361          303.09
                  337.09,
                  337.18,
4513.99           337.23,
                  339.01,
                  339.06 –
                  339.08
4519.01           375.01
4519.02           375.06
4519.20           375.02
4519.40           375.03
4519.41           375.04
4519.44           375.05
4519.46           375.07
4519.66           375.08
4549.05           303.03
4549.08           335.11
4549.081(B)       313.01
4549.081(C)       313.01
4549.11           335.10
4549.11(A)        335.09
4549.11(B)        335.09
4549.12           335.10
4549.12(A)        335.09
4549.12(B)        335.09
4931.40           537.12
5577.05           339.03
5577.06           339.03
5577.11           339.05
5577.15           339.07
5577.99(C)        339.03
5577.99(E)        339.05
5589.08           339.10
5589.081          339.10,
                  339.11
5589.99(B)        339.10
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1820     3-30-1976   Ch. 113
1868     5-31-1977   Ch. 113
2005     2-2-1982    Ch. 113
2007     2-16-1982   Ch. 113
2008     3-2-1982    Ch. 113
2087     2-21-1984   Ch. 113
2164     8-13-1985   TSO F
2171     9-17-1985   TSO F
2276     10-11-1988  Ch. 113
3-91     1-29-1991   TSO F
34-92    3-31-1992   TSO B
128-92   12-15-1992  TSO E
129-92   12-15-1992  TSO E
117-94   11-1-1994   TSO E
109-95   10-17-1995  TSO F
110-95   10-17-1995  TSO F
116-95   10-31-1995  TSO E
133-95   2-20-1996   TSO E
6-97     2-4-1997    TSO F
85-00    6-6-2000    TSO E
73-02    4-30-2002   TSO B
03-04    1-20-2004   Ch. 113
47-04    5-4-2004    103.01
170-05   11-1-2005   TSO G
64-07    9-18-2007   127.08
74-07    10-2-2007   TSO B
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
7        6-10-1895   TSO G
9        7-1-1895    TSO D
14       9-16-1895   TSO G
16       10-28-1895  TSO D
17       10-28-1895  TSO D
18       10-28-1895  TSO D
19       2-3-1896    TSO A
23       7-13-1896   TSO G
25       8-11-1896   TSO G
26       9-21-1896   TSO D
28       11-30-1896  TSO D
29       11-30-1896  TSO B
30       12-28-1896  TSO A
31       12-28-1896  TSO D
36       2-8-1897    TSO D
38       4-5-1897    TSO G
39       6-1-1897    TSO G
43       9-27-1897   TSO G
44       9-27-1897   TSO G
46       11-8-1897   TSO A
50       1-24-1898   TSO A
51       2-7-1898    TSO G
52       2-14-1898   TSO D
54       3-21-1898   TSO G
55       3-21-1898   TSO G
56       3-21-1898   TSO G
57       3-21-1898   TSO G
58       3-21-1898   TSO G
59       3-21-1898   TSO G
60       3-28-1898   TSO D
61       3-28-1898   TSO G
62       3-28-1898   TSO G
63       3-28-1898   TSO G
64       3-28-1898   TSO G
65       4-11-1898   TSO G
66       4-11-1898   TSO G
67       4-11-1898   TSO G
68       4-11-1898   TSO H
69       5-16-1898   TSO G
70       5-16-1898   TSO G
71       5-16-1898   TSO E
72       6-20-1898   TSO D
73       6-20-1898   TSO D
76       8-1-1898    TSO D
77       8-1-1898    TSO G
79       8-22-1898   TSO D
83       9-12-1898   TSO G
87       10-13-1898  TSO D
89       3-27-1899   TSO G
92       5-15-1899   TSO G
94       5-22-1899   TSO G
95       5-22-1899   TSO G
101      6-12-1899   TSO D
103      7-10-1899   TSO D
104      7-10-1899   TSO D
113      8-7-1899    TSO G
118      10-9-1899   TSO G
119      10-9-1899   TSO G
120      10-9-1899   TSO G
121      10-16-1899  TSO G
124      12-4-1899   TSO D
126      1-8-1900    TSO D
129      3-5-1900    TSO G
130      3-5-1900    TSO G
131      3-5-1900    TSO G
132      3-5-1900    TSO G
133      3-19-1900   TSO G
144      5-14-1900   TSO G
147      5-28-1900   TSO A
148      6-18-1900   TSO G
149      6-25-1900   TSO G
150      6-25-1900   TSO G
151      6-25-1900   TSO D
161      7-16-1900   TSO A
166      9-10-1900   TSO G
177      10-1-1900   TSO D
178      10-15-1900  TSO A
181      10-22-1900  TSO G
183      11-19-1900  TSO D
185      1-21-1901   TSO G
189      3-11-1901   TSO D
195      4-15-1901   TSO G
204      9-16-1901   TSO G
209      11-11-1901  TSO D
210      12-9-1901   TSO D
212      2-24-1902   TSO D
218      4-10-1902   TSO G
219      4-28-1902   TSO G
222      6-16-1902   TSO G
224      6-30-1902   TSO D
225      7-21-1902   TSO G
226      7-21-1902   TSO G
227      7-21-1902   TSO G
228      9-15-1902   TSO C
229      9-15-1902   TSO C
232      10-27-1902  TSO D
238      3-23-1903   TSO G
245      6-22-1903   TSO E
248      7-13-1903   TSO G
249      7-20-1903   TSO G
255      12-7-1903   TSO G
260      3-21-1904   TSO A
269      8-15-1904   TSO G
289      3-20-1905   TSO G
292      4-17-1905   TSO G
293      4-17-1905   TSO G
294      5-1-1905    TSO D
296      5-22-1905   TSO D
297      7-3-1905    TSO A
298      7-3-1905    TSO G
301      7-3-1905    TSO G
303      7-3-1905    TSO G
315      9-18-1905   TSO A
316      10-2-1905   TSO G
317      10-18-1905  TSO D
318      10-18-1905  TSO G
321      11-20-1905  TSO D
322      12-18-1905  TSO G
330      5-7-1906    TSO G
335      6-18-1906   TSO G
336      7-16-1906   TSO G
340      7-16-1906   TSO G
350      10-5-1906   TSO G
351      11-5-1906   TSO G
352      11-5-1906   TSO G
355      12-3-1906   TSO E
359      2-4-1907    TSO G
361      2-4-1907    TSO D
363      4-1-1907    TSO E
364      4-15-1907   TSO G
375      7-1-1907    TSO G
382      8-19-1907   TSO G
385      9-3-1907    TSO G
388      9-16-1907   TSO G
389      9-16-1907   TSO D
390      10-7-1907   TSO G
391      10-7-1907   TSO G
392      10-21-1907  TSO D
395      11-18-1907  TSO G
396      11-18-1907  TSO G
397      11-18-1907  TSO D
404      3-24-1908   TSO D
406      5-7-1908    TSO A
408      5-12-1908   TSO A
410      5-26-1908   TSO G
423      12-8-1908   TSO G
431      3-23-1909   TSO G
447      6-23-1909   TSO G
448      6-23-1909   TSO G
457      8-24-1909   TSO D
463      9-14-1909   TSO G
470      10-7-1909   TSO G
471      10-14-1909  TSO E
473      10-26-1909  TSO G
476      12-28-1909  TSO A
477      12-28-1909  TSO A
478      12-28-1909  TSO C
479      12-28-1909  TSO C
480      12-28-1909  TSO C
481      12-28-1909  TSO C
482      12-28-1909  TSO C
483      12-28-1909  TSO C
484      12-28-1909  TSO C
487      3-8-1910    TSO D
488      3-8-1910    TSO E
491      4-12-1910   TSO E
496      4-26-1910   TSO G
497      4-26-1910   TSO C
500      5-12-1910   TSO D
504      6-14-1910   TSO G
505      6-14-1910   TSO G
506      6-14-1910   TSO G
507      6-14-1910   TSO G
508      6-14-1910   TSO G
509      6-14-1910   TSO G
510      6-14-1910   TSO G
511      6-14-1910   TSO G
512      6-14-1910   TSO G
513      6-14-1910   TSO G
515      6-14-1910   TSO G
516      6-28-1910   TSO G
518      6-28-1910   TSO G
520      6-28-1910   TSO D
522      7-12-1910   TSO G
524      7-26-1910   TSO G
525      7-26-1910   TSO G
542      8-20-1910   TSO G
543      8-20-1910   TSO G
547      9-19-1910   TSO G
550      9-19-1910   TSO G
552      9-20-1910   TSO G
553      9-20-1910   TSO G
554      9-20-1910   TSO G
555      9-20-1910   TSO G
556      9-20-1910   TSO G
557      9-20-1910   TSO G
562      10-11-1910  TSO D
563      10-11-1910  TSO D
564      10-11-1910  TSO D
565      10-11-1910  TSO G
566      11-9-1910   TSO G
568      11-9-1910   TSO G
569      11-9-1910   TSO D
570      11-9-1910   TSO G
571      11-9-1910   TSO D
572      11-9-1910   TSO G
573      11-9-1910   TSO G
574      11-9-1910   TSO G
575      11-9-1910   TSO G
576      11-9-1910   TSO G
577      11-9-1910   TSO G
578      11-9-1910   TSO G
583      12-13-1910  TSO G
586      1-10-1911   TSO E
587      1-10-1911   TSO E
592      1-24-1911   TSO D
593      1-24-1911   TSO D
599      2-14-1911   TSO E
600      2-14-1911   TSO E
602      3-14-1911   TSO C
603      3-14-1911   TSO D
612      4-12-1911   TSO G
614      4-12-1911   TSO E
617      4-25-1911   TSO G
618      4-25-1911   TSO G
619      4-25-1911   TSO G
620      4-25-1911   TSO G
621      5-9-1911    TSO G
627      6-13-1911   TSO G
628      6-13-1911   TSO G
630      6-13-1911   TSO G
635      6-27-1911   TSO G
636      6-27-1911   TSO D
638      7-11-1911   TSO E
640      7-25-1911   TSO D
641      7-25-1911   TSO E
642      7-25-1911   TSO C,
                     TSO D
643      7-25-1911   TSO C,
                     TSO D
644      7-25-1911   TSO G
655      9-12-1911   TSO D
656      9-26-1911   TSO G
660      9-26-1911   TSO E
668      10-10-1911  TSO D
672      10-24-1911  TSO E
674      11-28-1911  TSO D
677      12-19-1911  TSO D
717      4-14-1912   TSO E
709      4-23-1912   TSO A
710      4-23-1912   TSO A
711      4-23-1912   TSO G
712      4-23-1912   TSO G
719      6-11-1912   TSO G
720      6-11-1912   TSO G
747      10-22-1912  TSO E
748      10-23-1912  TSO B
753      11-26-1912  TSO C
754      11-26-1912  TSO D
756      12-24-1912  TSO G
757      12-24-1912  TSO E
770      3-11-1913   TSO G
771      3-11-1913   TSO G
773      5-13-1913   TSO G
778      6-10-1913   TSO G
780      7-22-1913   TSO G
783      8-12-1913   TSO G
791      8-26-1913   TSO A
792      10-14-1913  TSO G
794      11-18-1913  TSO E
797      12-9-1913   TSO E
802      12-9-1913   TSO G
803      12-9-1913   TSO G
804      12-9-1913   TSO D
805      12-9-1913   TSO E
806      12-9-1913   TSO E
808      12-9-1913   TSO E
809      12-17-1913  TSO A
810      12-23-1913  TSO E
812      12-30-1913  TSO D
822      4-20-1914   TSO D
823      4-20-1914   TSO G
824      4-20-1914   TSO G
825      4-20-1914   TSO C
841      8-17-1914   TSO G
847      9-21-1914   TSO G
860      11-10-1914  TSO G
870-1/2  1-4-1915    TSO D
910-1/2  9-20-1915   TSO G
935      3-6-1916    TSO G
941      4-3-1916    TSO D
942      4-3-1916    TSO D
943      4-3-1916    TSO D
946      4-3-1916    TSO E
965      6-5-1916    TSO D
990      9-5-1916    TSO A
1004     12-20-1916  TSO C
1038     6-18-1917   TSO D
1039     6-18-1917   TSO A
1040     7-2-1917    TSO D
1048     8-20-1917   TSO A
1051     10-1-1917   TSO E
1059     11-5-1917   TSO D
1075     2-19-1918   TSO D
1087     5-6-1918    TSO A
1088     5-6-1918    TSO G
1093     5-14-1918   TSO D
1095     5-14-1918   TSO D
1096     5-28-1918   TSO E
1112     7-25-1918   TSO G
1113     7-25-1918   TSO C,
                     TSO D
1114     7-25-1918   TSO D
1142     11-26-1918  TSO E
1144     11-26-1918  TSO D
1184     4-9-1919    TSO D
1204     6-10-1919   TSO A
1208     6-10-1919   TSO E
1209     7-1-1919    TSO D
1211     7-1-1919    TSO E
1223     7-22-1919   TSO E
1234     9-2-1919    TSO E
1246     9-16-1919   TSO E
1247     9-16-1919   TSO E
1287     1-6-1920    TSO D
1301     2-17-1920   TSO E
1312     3-9-1920    TSO D
1349     5-11-1920   TSO E
1351     5-11-1920   TSO E
1380     8-3-1920    TSO D
1402     8-31-1920   TSO E
1406     9-14-1920   TSO E
1408     9-14-1920   TSO E
1410     9-28-1920   TSO E
1411     9-28-1920   TSO E
1415     10-26-1920  TSO E
1437     1-3-1921    TSO A
1438     1-3-1921    TSO A
1439     1-3-1921    TSO H
1447     2-8-1921    TSO D
1452     3-8-1921    TSO D
1530     10-18-1921  TSO G
1532     10-18-1921  TSO A
1541     12-27-1921  TSO A
1587     6-8-1922    TSO E
1588     6-8-1922    TSO E
1592     6-8-1922    TSO E
1602     7-5-1922    TSO C
1605     8-15-1922   TSO E
1606     8-15-1922   TSO E
1607     8-15-1922   TSO E
1608     8-29-1922   TSO E
1632     9-26-1922   TSO G
1635     9-26-1922   TSO C
1640     10-24-1922  TSO E
1643     11-10-1922  TSO A
1650     12-19-1922  TSO G
1656     1-16-1923   TSO E
1671     2-13-1923   TSO E
1691     2-28-1923   1329.01
1693     3-13-1923   TSO E
1694     3-13-1923   TSO E
1711     4-10-1923   TSO A
1715     4-24-1923   TSO C
1719     5-8-1923    TSO E
1722     6-11-1923   TSO G
1723     6-11-1923   TSO E
1724     6-11-1923   TSO E
1731     6-26-1923   TSO E
1732     6-26-1923   TSO E
1741     6-26-1923   TSO A
1746     9-11-1923   TSO A
1749     9-11-1923   TSO E
1750     9-11-1923   TSO E
1751     9-11-1923   TSO E
1757     10-9-1923   TSO E
1758     10-23-1923  TSO G
1759     10-23-1923  TSO G
1761     11-20-1923  TSO E
1792     2-26-1924   TSO G
1798     3-11-1924   TSO E
1801     3-25-1924   TSO D
1802     3-25-1924   TSO G
1804     3-25-1924   TSO E
1810     4-8-1924    TSO E
1811     4-8-1924    TSO E
1820     4-14-1924   TSO E
1850     6-3-1924    TSO G
1852     6-3-1924    TSO G
1860     6-17-1924   TSO B
1862     7-17-1924   TSO B
1878     8-12-1924   TSO E
1900     11-5-1924   TSO E
1905     11-18-1924  TSO E
1906     11-18-1924  TSO E
1946     3-24-1925   TSO E
1947     3-24-1925   TSO E
1948     3-24-1925   TSO E
1971     5-5-1925    TSO C
1973     5-5-1925    TSO E
1974     5-5-1925    TSO E
1975     5-19-1925   TSO E
1978     5-19-1925   TSO E
1983     6-16-1925   TSO C
1993     7-28-1925   TSO D
1994     7-28-1925   TSO A
1997     8-12-1925   TSO E
1998     8-12-1925   TSO B
2008     10-27-1925  TSO E
2009     10-27-1925  TSO D
2012     11-4-1925   TSO F
2013     11-4-1925   TSO G
2015     11-4-1925   TSO E
2019     11-10-1925  TSO E
2020     11-10-1925  TSO A
2027     12-1-1925   TSO D
2028     12-1-1925   TSO E
2029     12-1-1925   TSO E
2041     12-15-1925  TSO G
2042     12-15-1925  TSO G
2043     12-15-1925  TSO E
2048     12-15-1925  TSO E
2053     1-5-1926    TSO E
2083     3-5-1926    TSO B
2107     4-27-1926   TSO C
2109     4-27-1926   TSO E
2110     4-27-1926   TSO E
2111     4-27-1926   TSO C
2112     5-11-1926   TSO E
2113     5-11-1926   TSO E
2116     5-25-1926   TSO F
2120     6-22-1926   TSO C
2131     8-18-1926   TSO E
2139     8-18-1926   TSO E
2141     8-18-1926   TSO E
2142     8-18-1926   TSO E
2145     9-14-1926   TSO C
2158     10-5-1926   TSO G
2180     12-7-1926   TSO E
2184     12-21-1926  TSO E
2199     1-4-1927    TSO E
2204     1-18-1927   901.02 –
                     901.04
2213     2-15-1927   TSO E
2214     3-1-1927    TSO B
2219     3-15-1927   TSO E
2228     4-26-1927   TSO E
2264     8-16-1927   TSO E
2269     9-13-1927   TSO B
2273     9-13-1927   TSO E
2274     9-13-1927   TSO B
2275     9-13-1927   TSO B
2292     12-6-1927   TSO A
2296     12-20-1927  TSO E
2313     3-28-1928   TSO A
2316     4-10-1928   TSO E
2325     5-28-1928   TSO D
2327     6-5-1928    TSO A
2328     6-5-1928    TSO A
2331     6-19-1928   TSO E
2332     6-19-1928   TSO E
2338     7-10-1928   TSO A
2353     8-28-1928   TSO E
2358A    8-28-1928   TSO E
2364     9-25-1928   TSO A
2370     12-4-1928   TSO A
2372     12-4-1928   TSO G
2374     12-18-1928  TSO G
2378     1-15-1929   TSO B
2380     1-15-1929   TSO E
2381     1-15-1929   TSO E
2386     1-29-1929   TSO G
2387     1-29-1929   TSO E
2393     3-5-1929    TSO E
2394     3-5-1929    TSO E
2396     3-26-1929   TSO E
2403     4-23-1929   TSO B
2406     4-23-1929   TSO G
2407     4-23-1929   TSO E
2408     5-7-1929    TSO B
2412     5-7-1929    TSO B
2415     5-21-1929   TSO B
2416     5-21-1929   TSO E
2417     5-21-1929   TSO E
2418     5-21-1929   TSO E
2425     6-4-1929    TSO E
2427     6-4-1929    TSO B
2428     6-4-1929    TSO B
2432     7-2-1929    TSO E
2438     7-16-1929   TSO E
2450     7-30-1929   TSO C
2453     7-30-1929   TSO A
2458     8-19-1929   TSO E
2459     8-19-1929   TSO C
2462     8-19-1929   TSO D
2463     8-19-1929   TSO E
2464     8-19-1929   TSO E
2467     9-10-1929   TSO E
2468     9-10-1929   TSO G
2471     9-10-1929   TSO G
2481     11-26-1929  TSO E
2490     1-14-1930   TSO A
2494     2-11-1930   TSO G
2507     3-25-1930   TSO E
2509     3-25-1930   TSO E
2510     4-8-1930    TSO E
2511     4-8-1930    TSO E
2514     4-8-1930    TSO E
2515     4-8-1930    TSO E
2516     4-8-1930    TSO D
2518     4-22-1930   TSO E
2521     5-6-1930    TSO D
2522     5-6-1930    TSO F
2527     5-27-1930   TSO G
2529     5-27-1930   TSO C
2530     5-27-1930   TSO E
2532     5-27-1930   TSO G
2533     5-27-1930   TSO G
2534     5-27-1930   TSO G
2535     5-27-1930   TSO G
2536     5-27-1930   TSO G
2537     5-27-1930   TSO G
2538     5-27-1930   TSO G
2539     5-27-1930   TSO G
2540     5-27-1930   TSO G
2541     5-27-1930   TSO G
2549     7-15-1930   TSO E
2550     7-15-1930   TSO E
2559     8-26-1930   TSO G
2570     9-16-1930   TSO E
2573     9-16-1930   TSO A
2574     10-14-1930  TSO E
2577     11-5-1930   TSO C
2578     11-5-1930   TSO E
2579     11-5-1930   TSO C
2580     11-5-1930   TSO E
2582     11-5-1930   TSO E
2584     11-5-1930   TSO E
2590     12-2-1930   TSO C
2594     1-20-1931   TSO E
2598     2-10-1931   TSO B
2604     3-10-1931   TSO D
2609     4-7-1931    TSO F
2610     4-21-1931   TSO G
2627     6-2-1931    TSO E
2629     6-23-1931   TSO E
2630     6-23-1931   TSO F
2633     6-30-1931   TSO E
2634     6-30-1931   TSO E
2646     8-12-1931   TSO E
2653     9-22-1931   907.01 –
                     907.10
2676     12-22-1931  TSO E
2677     12-22-1931  TSO E
2687     12-29-1931  TSO B
2709     3-22-1932   TSO E
2712     4-19-1932   TSO F
2718     5-17-1932   TSO F
2729     6-28-1932   TSO F
2730     7-26-1932   TSO F
2735     8-23-1932   TSO B
2755     12-13-1932  TSO A
2764     12-27-1932  TSO F
2775     3-14-1933   TSO F
2778     3-28-1933   TSO F
2792     6-6-1933    TSO B
2794     6-20-1933   TSO B
2795     6-20-1933   TSO E
2812     9-12-1933   TSO B
2813     9-26-1933   TSO F
2839     3-13-1934   TSO F
2886     10-9-1934   TSO F
2892     12-4-1934   TSO A
2976     9-30-1935   TSO D
2977     9-30-1935   TSO D
2989     11-6-1935   TSO E
2990     11-6-1935   TSO E
3019     1-28-1936   TSO C
3020     1-28-1936   TSO D
3021     1-28-1936   TSO D
3022     1-28-1936   TSO G
3023     1-28-1936   TSO G
3044     3-24-1936   TSO E
3045     3-24-1936   TSO E
3046     3-24-1936   TSO D
3047     3-24-1936   TSO G
3053     4-7-1936    TSO E
3055     4-7-1936    TSO G
3070     5-5-1936    TSO B
3073     5-26-1936   TSO E
3079     6-16-1936   TSO E
3094     7-28-1936   TSO E
3098     7-28-1936   TSO E
3106     9-8-1936    TSO E
3107     9-8-1936    TSO E
3108     9-8-1936    TSO E
3109     9-8-1936    TSO E
3115     9-29-1936   TSO E
3117     10-6-1936   TSO E
3125     11-4-1936   TSO E
3139     11-17-1936  TSO E
3140     11-17-1936  TSO E
3158     12-15-1936  TSO E
3169     12-15-1936  TSO E
3181     1-5-1937    TSO E
4097     1-14-1937   TSO E
3182     1-26-1937   TSO E
3183     1-26-1937   TSO E
3184     1-26-1937   TSO E
3201     3-26-1937   TSO E
3204     3-26-1937   TSO E
3220     4-20-1937   TSO B
3235     6-1-1937    TSO D
                     171.02,
3249     7-27-1937   171.03,
                     171.05
3269     10-20-1937  TSO E
3281     11-30-1937  TSO B
3282     11-30-1937  TSO B
3318     2-23-1938   TSO B
3319     3-8-1938    TSO E
3320     3-8-1938    TSO E
3329     4-5-1938    TSO E
3359     8-10-1938   TSO E
3366     9-20-1938   TSO D
3376     11-1-1938   TSO E
3407     1-17-1939   TSO E
3408     1-17-1939   TSO E
3412     1-31-1939   TSO E
3425     2-28-1939   TSO E
3428     3-8-1939    TSO E
3431     3-28-1939   TSO E
3442     5-9-1939    TSO E
3475     9-26-1939   TSO A
3510     12-19-1939  TSO A
3627     2-13-1940   TSO E
3539     4-3-1940    TSO E
3543     4-3-1940    TSO D
3580     8-7-1940    TSO B
3681     10-21-1940  TSO E
3642     3-25-1941   TSO E
3675     9-23-1941   TSO C
3680     10-21-1941  TSO E
3690     11-18-1941  TSO A
3691     11-18-1941  TSO B
3701     12-16-1941  TSO C
3725     3-24-1942   TSO D
3732     4-7-1942    505.15,
                     505.17
3755     6-30-1942   TSO E
                     931.01 –
                     931.09,
                     931.12,
3759     7-14-1942   931.14 –
                     931.18,
                     931.22 –
                     931.24
3818     5-18-1943   TSO F
3870     1-11-1944   129.01,
                     129.02
3897     6-29-1944   TSO A
3911     9-19-1944   TSO B
3936     12-26-1944  TSO B
3937     12-26-1944  TSO B
4033     5-8-1946    TSO E
4046     7-16-1946   TSO E
4073     11-7-1946   TSO D
4105     2-25-1947   TSO E
4146     7-15-1947   TSO E
4165     8-26-1947   TSO E
                     193.01,
                     193.02,
4168     9-23-1947   193.05 –
                     193.10,
                     193.12
4208     1-2-1948    713.04
4219     2-10-1948   TSO E
4259     6-17-1948   TSO E
4264     7-13-1948   TSO E
4270     7-13-1948   TSO A
4280     8-10-1948   TSO E
4286     9-28-1948   TSO G
4288     9-28-1948   TSO D
4300     12-14-1948  TSO E
4318     1-25-1949   TSO E
4338     6-28-1949   TSO F
4369     9-20-1949   905.03
4384     11-15-1949  TSO B
4401     12-27-1949  193.04
4432     5-3-1950    TSO B
4444     6-13-1950   TSO G
4445     6-13-1950   TSO G
4487     10-31-1950  TSO B
4527     2-27-1951   TSO A
4569     8-28-1951   TSO C
4571     8-28-1951   TSO C
4592     11-20-1951  TSO A
4615     1-15-1952   127.04
4618     1-29-1952   193.03
4624     2-13-1952   TSO C
4646     5-7-1952    TSO C
4659     8-12-1952   TSO A
4668     9-23-1952   TSO E
4683     11-18-1952  TSO C
4684     11-18-1952  TSO C
4733     7-31-1953   TSO C
                     1101.02,
                     1101.03,
                     1101.06,
                     1101.07,
                     1101.09,
                     1101.10,
                     1101.12 –
                     1101.14,
                     1101.16,
                     1101.17,
                     1101.19,
                     1101.21 –
                     1101.23,
                     1101.28 –
                     1101.30,
                     1101.34,
                     1101.35,
                     1103.01 –
                     1103.06,
                     1105.01,
                     1105.99,
                     1107.01,
                     1107.03,
                     1107.06,
                     1109.01,
                     1109.02,
4761     11-17-1953  1121.02,
                     1121.03,
                     1123.01,
                     1123.02,
                     1123.04,
                     1125.03,
                     1125.04,
                     1125.07,
                     1125.09,
                     1127.01,
                     1127.02,
                     1129.01,
                     1129.02,
                     1131.01,
                     1131.02,
                     1133.01,
                     1135.01,
                     1135.03,
                     1137.02 –
                     1137.04,
                     1139.01,
                     1139.02,
                     1139.04 –
                     1139.06,
                     1141.02 –
                     1141.04,
                     1143.02 –
                     1143.10
4781     12-29-1953  TSO E
4783     1-12-1954   TSO E
4787     2-23-1954   TSO E
4798     4-6-1954    TSO F
4800     5-5-1954    127.03
4802     6-1-1954    TSO E
4822     10-19-1954  TSO I
4823     10-19-1954  TSO I
4831     11-16-1954  TSO F
4838     12-28-1954  TSO C
4839     12-28-1954  TSO D
4864     5-3-1955    TSO I
4876     8-9-1955    TSO I
4881     8-23-1955   1135.02,
                     1141.02
4896     11-29-1955  TSO G
4900     12-13-1955  1101.18,
                     1139.03
4906     12-27-1955  1101.08
4912     12-27-1955  TSO E
4921     2-21-1956   TSO E
4931     4-3-1956    TSO D
4932     4-3-1956    905.02
5034     4-23-1956   TSO F
4937     5-1-1956    TSO F
4941     6-12-1956   TSO E
4942     6-12-1956   TSO F
4947     6-12-1956   TSO C
4954     6-26-1956   TSO A
4955     6-26-1956   TSO E
4958     7-24-1956   TSO I
4962     8-7-1956    TSO E
4963     8-7-1956    TSO E
4968     9-7-1956    TSO E
4997     12-11-1956  TSO B
5005     1-15-1957   TSO D
5035     5-7-1957    TSO B
5040     7-2-1957    TSO E
5048     7-30-1957   TSO I
5063     10-8-1957   TSO E
5064     10-8-1957   TSO E
5083     1-2-1958    TSO E
5089     2-25-1958   TSO I
5094     3-11-1958   1101.25,
                     1101.32
5095     3-11-1958   TSO I
5104     4-8-1958    1123.02,
                     1123.04
5105     4-23-1958   TSO E
5141     10-28-1958  TSO E
5145     12-2-1958   1133.01
5146     12-2-1958   TSO I
5149     12-2-1958   TSO F
5150     12-16-1958  1105.02,
                     1137.01
5164     1-27-1959   1101.20
5185     6-30-1959   1101.24
5187     7-14-1959   TSO E
5819     7-14-1959   TSO F
5197     8-25-1959   TSO I
                     TSO C,
5200     8-25-1959   TSO D,
                     TSO E
5204     10-6-1959   TSO E
5208     10-20-1959  TSO E
5209     10-20-1959  TSO I
5213     11-4-1959   171.04
5216     12-15-1959  TSO E
5219     12-30-1959  TSO A
5228     1-12-1960   TSO B
5242     3-22-1960   TSO I
5247     4-8-1960    TSO I
5250     4-19-1960   TSO D
5254     5-4-1960    TSO B
5358     5-17-1960   TSO B
                     1319.01 –
                     1319.03,
5260     5-31-1960   1319.06 –
                     1319.11,
                     1319.99
5266     6-14-1960   TSO E
5267     6-28-1960   TSO I
5271     7-26-1960   TSO I
5272     7-26-1960   TSO I
5273     7-26-1960   903.01 –
                     903.04
5280     9-20-1960   721.03
5286     11-1-1960   1143.01
5289     11-1-1960   TSO I
5312     2-7-1961    TSO I
5316     3-7-1961    TSO I
                     1341.01,
                     1341.05,
                     1341.06,
                     1341.10,
                     1341.12,
                     1341.13,
                     1341.15,
                     1341.17,
                     1343.01,
                     1343.03,
5320     3-21-1961   1343.05,
                     1345.01,
                     1345.04 –
                     1345.06,
                     1345.10,
                     1349.01,
                     1349.02,
                     1349.04,
                     1349.06,
                     1351.01,
                     1501.21
5605     3-21-1961   1501.21
5328     5-31-1961   TSO I
5333     7-11-1961   TSO I
5337     8-8-1961    TSO I
5345     10-3-1961   1133.01
5346     10-3-1961   TSO I
5347     10-3-1961   TSO I
5348     10-3-1961   TSO I
5349     10-3-1961   TSO I
5366     12-12-1961  121.09
5375     1-2-1962    TSO I
5377     2-13-1962   TSO I
5379     2-27-1962   1123.02
5380     2-27-1962   TSO B
5387     5-9-1962    1133.01
5388     5-9-1962    TSO I
5389     5-9-1962    TSO I
5390     5-9-1962    TSO I
5391     5-22-1962   TSO I
5395     6-5-1962    TSO C
5400     7-3-1962    1141.01
5408     8-14-1962   1133.03
5409     8-14-1962   TSO I
5425     10-23-1962  TSO I
5432     11-20-1962  1343.04
5433     12-4-1962   TSO I
5437     12-18-1962  TSO I
5443     1-15-1963   TSO I
5444     1-15-1963   TSO I
                     939.01 –
                     939.14,
5455     2-26-1963   939.16 –
                     939.18,
                     939.20 –
                     939.27
5456     2-26-1963   TSO C
5461     5-9-1963    TSO I
5463     5-9-1963    TSO E
5464     5-9-1963    901.01,
                     903.02
5465     5-9-1963    505.13
5467     5-9-1963    1321.01
5476     5-21-1963   TSO I
5482     6-18-1963   TSO I
5484     6-18-1963   1321.99
5485     6-18-1963   1341.09
5488     7-2-1963    TSO E
5494     8-27-1963   TSO E
5498     9-24-1963   TSO I
4750     10-6-1963   TSO C
5511     11-6-1963   TSO F
                     1355.02,
                     1355.03,
                     1355.07,
5513     11-6-1963   1355.09 –
                     1355.13,
                     1355.15,
                     1355.99
5516     12-17-1963  TSO I
5528     1-28-1964   TSO I
5529     1-28-1964   TSO I
                     1101.01,
                     1101.04,
                     1101.05,
                     1101.09,
                     1101.15,
                     1101.26,
5531     2-11-1964   1101.27,
                     1101.31,
                     1101.33,
                     1123.01,
                     1137.04,
                     1141.04,
                     1143.01
5533     2-25-1964   TSO I
5537     3-12-1964   TSO I
5538     3-12-1964   TSO I
5539     3-12-1964   TSO I
                     123.01,
5541     3-12-1964   123.02,
                     123.08,
                     123.09
5542     3-24-1964   553.01 –
                     553.03
                     1121.01,
                     1123.01,
                     1123.02,
5547     4-21-1964   1125.01,
                     1125.02,
                     1141.02,
                     1141.03
5548     4-21-1964   TSO I
5549     4-21-1964   1319.08
5569     8-31-1964   TSO I
5572     8-31-1964   177.02
5574     8-31-1964   TSO I
5577     10-6-1964   TSO I
5584     10-20-1964  TSO I
5586     11-17-1964  1355.13
                     1341.04,
5587     11-17-1964  1341.18,
                     1351.02
5616     3-9-1965    TSO I
5628     4-20-1965   129.03
5635     6-1-1965    TSO I
5636     6-1-1965    1311.01 –
                     1311.03
5637     6-1-1965    1107.02,
                     1107.05
5638     6-1-1965    1355.16,
                     1355.17
5642     6-1-1965    1345.08
5659     8-24-1965   TSO I
5661     8-24-1965   939.15
5666     9-24-1965   TSO E
5667     9-24-1965   TSO I
                     937.01 –
5673     10-11-1965  937.03,
                     937.99
5680     11-30-1965  TSO I
5686     12-14-1965  TSO G
5688     12-28-1965  TSO I
                     1341.14,
                     1341.16,
                     1343.02,
5717     4-5-1966    1345.03,
                     1345.99,
                     1349.02,
                     1349.03
5726     5-17-1966   TSO I
5737     7-12-1966   TSO I
5742     7-12-1966   TSO B
5755     8-23-1966   TSO D
5756     8-23-1966   TSO B
5763     9-20-1966   TSO D
5764     9-20-1966   TSO D
5768     10-4-1966   TSO I
                     191.0301,
                     191.0303 –
                     191.0317,
                     191.0319,
                     191.0320,
                     191.0701 –
                     191.0703,
                     191.1102 –
                     191.1105,
                     191.1302,
                     191.1304,
5783     12-13-1966  191.1307,
                     191.1504,
                     191.1507,
                     191.1701,
                     191.1703,
                     191.2101,
                     191.2301 –
                     191.2308,
                     191.2310,
                     191.2312,
                     191.2701,
                     191.2702
                     1347.01,
5784     12-13-1966  1347.02,
                     1347.04,
                     1349.07
5801     2-21-1967   1355.03,
                     1355.18
5802     2-21-1967   1341.07,
                     1345.09
5805     4-1-1967    1123.02,
                     1123.03
5813     5-17-1967   129.04
                     121.01 –
5856     11-28-1967  121.03,
                     121.07
5875     2-13-1968   TSO E
5885     3-26-1968   TSO I
5886     3-26-1968   1125.08
5887     3-26-1968   1123.01
5891     4-23-1968   191.1302,
                     191.1501
5895     6-18-1968   191.1302
5897     6-18-1968   935.02
5907     7-30-1968   TSO F
5914     8-13-1968   TSO F
5920     9-24-1968   TSO F
5934     11-6-1968   TSO I
5943     12-17-1968  TSO B
5981     3-25-1969   TSO I
5984     4-22-1969   TSO I
5985     4-22-1969   TSO B
5998     6-17-1969   TSO I
                     123.07,
                     355.01,
                     503.01,
                     503.02,
                     503.04 –
                     503.06,
                     505.01,
                     509.12,
6010     7-29-1969   521.03 –
                     521.06,
                     525.15,
                     527.01,
                     527.03 –
                     527.15,
                     529.11,
                     543.01 –
                     543.03,
                     545.21
6029     9-23-1969   TSO E
6034     9-23-1969   TSO E
6035     10-7-1969   541.05
6039     10-7-1969   TSO E
6040     10-7-1969   TSO E
6041     10-7-1969   TSO E
6042     10-7-1969   TSO E
6043     10-7-1969   TSO E
6047     10-21-1969  TSO E
6049     10-21-1969  TSO I
6050     11-5-1969   TSO E
6051     11-5-1969   TSO E
6052     11-5-1969   TSO E
6055     11-17-1969  TSO E
6056     11-17-1969  TSO E
6057     11-17-1969  TSO E
6058     11-17-1969  TSO E
6060     12-2-1969   TSO F
6062     12-15-1969  TSO E
6067     12-16-1969  TSO E
6068     12-16-1969  TSO E
6069     12-16-1969  TSO E
6070     12-16-1969  TSO E
6071     12-16-1969  TSO E
6072     12-16-1969  TSO E
6073     12-16-1969  TSO E
6074     12-16-1969  TSO E
6075     12-16-1969  TSO E
6077     12-30-1969  TSO E
6089     1-13-1970   TSO E
6093     1-27-1970   1133.01
6094     1-27-1970   TSO I
6095     1-27-1970   TSO E
6125     4-21-1970   TSO F
6127     5-6-1970    TSO I
6128     5-6-1970    TSO E
6129     5-6-1970    TSO E
6130     5-6-1970    TSO E
6134     5-19-1970   1123.03
6354     5-19-1970   1123.03
6138     6-2-1970    TSO E
6157     7-28-1970   TSO F
6162     8-25-1970   TSO I
6177     10-20-1970  TSO E
6178     10-20-1970  939.19
6181     10-20-1970  TSO E
6182     10-20-1970  TSO E
6183     10-20-1970  TSO E
6184     11-4-1970   TSO E
6197     11-17-1970  TSO E
6199     12-1-1970   TSO E
6202     12-15-1970  TSO E
6203     12-15-1970  TSO E
6204     12-15-1970  TSO E
6205     12-15-1970  TSO E
6206     12-15-1970  TSO E
6207     12-15-1970  TSO E
6208     12-15-1970  TSO E
6209     12-15-1970  TSO E
6210     12-15-1970  TSO E
6214     12-19-1970  TSO E
6224     1-26-1971   TSO E
6227     2-9-1971    TSO E
6236     2-23-1971   TSO E
6246     4-6-1971    TSO E
6247     4-6-1971    TSO E
6253     5-5-1971    TSO E
6254     5-5-1971    TSO E
6255     5-5-1971    TSO E
6256     5-5-1971    TSO E
6259     5-18-1971   TSO E
6260     5-18-1971   TSO E
6263     6-1-1971    TSO E
6265     6-15-1971   TSO B
6266     6-15-1971   TSO C
6267     6-15-1971   TSO E
6281     7-27-1971   TSO C
6285     8-10-1971   TSO D
6294     9-21-1971   745.01 –
                     745.04
6304     11-3-1971   933.03
6321     12-14-1971  191.1301,
                     191.1305
6323     12-14-1971  TSO E
6327     12-14-1971  TSO E
6351     5-3-1972    1319.09
6353     5-16-1972   1143.01
6355     5-16-1972   TSO E
6719     5-16-1972   1123.03
6358     5-30-1972   TSO E
6361     5-30-1972   TSO E
6362     5-30-1972   TSO E
6363     5-30-1972   TSO E
6369     5-30-1972   TSO I
6375     6-27-1972   TSO E
6376     6-27-1972   TSO E
6377     6-27-1972   TSO E
6383     7-25-1972   TSO I
6391     8-8-1972    TSO E
6393     8-22-1972   TSO E
6397     9-5-1972    TSO E
                     1333.01,
                     1333.02,
6404     10-4-1972   1333.04 –
                     1333.06,
                     1333.08,
                     1333.09
6405     10-17-1972  TSO E
6410     10-31-1972  TSO E
6414     11-14-1972  TSO E
6431     2-6-1973    TSO E
6441     3-6-1973    TSO E
6442     3-6-1973    TSO E
6443     3-6-1973    TSO E
6444     3-6-1973    TSO E
6445     3-6-1973    TSO E
6446     3-6-1973    TSO E
6447     3-6-1973    TSO E
6448     3-6-1973    TSO E
6451     3-20-1973   TSO E
6452     3-20-1973   TSO E
6453     3-20-1973   TSO E
6454     3-20-1973   TSO E
6455     3-20-1973   TSO E
6456     3-20-1973   TSO E
6459     3-20-1973   TSO E
6460     3-20-1973   TSO E
6461     3-20-1973   TSO E
6462     3-20-1973   TSO E
6463     3-20-1973   TSO E
6464     3-20-1973   TSO E
6465     3-20-1973   TSO E
6466     3-20-1973   TSO E
6470     3-20-1973   TSO E
6471     3-20-1973   TSO E
6472     3-20-1973   TSO E
6476     3-27-1973   TSO E
6477     3-27-1973   TSO E
6481     5-1-1973    TSO E
6484     5-15-1973   1355.06
6492     6-26-1973   TSO E
6501     7-19-1973   TSO E
6502     7-19-1973   TSO E
6503     7-19-1973   TSO E
6510     9-4-1973    TSO E
6511     9-4-1973    TSO E
6512     9-4-1973    TSO E
6514     9-18-1973   TSO E
6515     9-18-1973   TSO E
6516     9-18-1973   TSO E
6517     9-18-1973   TSO E
6518     9-18-1973   TSO E
6520     10-2-1973   177.01
6521     10-16-1973  TSO E
6522     10-16-1973  TSO E
6525     10-30-1973  TSO F
6526     11-13-1973  TSO D
6527     11-27-1973  TSO E
6528     11-27-1973  TSO E
6531     12-11-1973  TSO E
6532     12-11-1973  TSO E
6536     12-26-1973  TSO E
6540     12-26-1973  501.99,
                     541.04
6551     1-22-1974   503.03
6558     2-5-1974    TSO E
6575     4-2-1974    1123.03
6586     4-16-1974   177.05
6591     4-30-1974   1125.06
6596     5-14-1974   127.05
6658     11-26-1974  191.0706
6670     12-26-1974  TSO A
6678     12-26-1974  127.06
6679     1-7-1975    501.99
6680     1-7-1975    111.02
6681     1-14-1975   TSO A
6684     1-21-1975   133.01
                     191.1303,
6695     2-18-1975   191.1306,
                     191.2311
6707     3-18-1975   509.10,
                     509.99
6717     4-15-1975   TSO F
6719     4-29-1975   1123.03
                     1369.01 –
                     1369.17,
                     1371.01 –
                     1371.05,
                     1373.01 –
                     1373.06,
6735     6-10-1975   1373.08 –
                     1373.13,
                     1375.01 –
                     1375.07,
                     1377.01 –
                     1377.03,
                     1377.99
6741     6-24-1975   TSO F
6742     6-24-1975   TSO B
6751     7-22-1975   TSO A
6752     8-5-1975    123.04
                     103.02 –
6779     11-28-1975  103.04,
                     103.06 –
                     103.10
6785     11-28-1975  TSO E
6807     1-20-1976   TSO E
6812     1-20-1976   TSO F
6817     2-3-1976    TSO F
6820     2-17-1976   TSO E
6824     2-17-1976   715.01 –
                     715.03
6695     2-18-1976   191.0704
                     353.04,
                     355.01,
6833     3-2-1976    355.07,
                     355.08,
                     355.13
6837     3-16-1976   103.05,
                     103.06
6838     3-16-1976   TSO D
6839     3-16-1976   TSO E
6840     3-16-1976   TSO B
6842     3-30-1976   TSO C
6844     3-30-1976   TSO E
                     505.01 –
6849     4-20-1976   505.04,
                     505.16
6857     5-18-1976   TSO E
6859     5-18-1976   TSO E
6878     7-20-1976   313.02
6895     8-17-1976   TSO E
6896     8-17-1976   TSO E
6908     9-21-1976   127.05
6912     9-21-1976   TSO E
                     753.01 –
                     753.11,
6921     11-3-1976   753.13 –
                     753.20,
                     753.99
6935     11-30-1976  TSO E
6937     12-7-1976   505.99
6942     12-21-1976  337.01
6943     12-21-1976  525.03
6956     1-18-1977   TSO F
6962     2-1-1977    TSO I
6990     4-5-1977    121.08
6991     5-3-1977    TSO F
7012     6-7-1977    TSO E
7019     7-5-1977    171.08
7023     7-19-1977   TSO E
7036     8-2-1977    TSO E
7049     8-16-1977   TSO E
7051     8-16-1977   TSO E
7057     9-6-1977    527.02
7060     9-6-1977    1355.08
7062     9-20-1977   1341.11
7073     10-4-1977   TSO E
7092     11-29-1977  TSO F
7101     12-20-1977  505.06,
                     753.12
7105     12-20-1977  175.01
7114     1-3-1978    TSO B
7122     2-7-1978    103.01
7123     2-7-1978    TSO F
7125     2-21-1978   111.01
7128     2-21-1978   TSO E
7129     2-21-1978   TSO E
7132     3-21-1978   1345.02,
                     1373.02
7133     3-21-1978   129.06 –
                     129.09
7135     3-21-1978   TSO E
7144     4-11-1978   127.01
7149     5-2-1978    TSO I
7157     5-2-1978    129.06
7161     5-23-1978   TSO E
7178     7-13-1978   TSO E
7200     9-5-1978    TSO E
7214     10-17-1978  TSO F
7215     10-17-1978  TSO F
7223     11-8-1978   TSO E
7226     11-21-1978  TSO F
7236     12-19-1978  TSO E
7241     1-2-1979    TSO E
7251     1-30-1979   TSO E
7252     1-30-1979   TSO E
7257     2-6-1979    527.16
7269     3-20-1979   TSO B
7270     3-20-1979   TSO B
7279     4-3-1979    TSO E
7280     4-3-1979    TSO E
7288     5-1-1979    TSO B
7292     5-1-1979    TSO E
7293     5-1-1979    TSO E
7311     6-19-1979   TSO E
7312     6-19-1979   TSO B
7316     7-17-1979   1301.11,
                     1301.12
7320     7-31-1979   525.02
7325     8-9-1979    171.07,
                     171.09
7350     10-30-1979  TSO G
7352     11-7-1979   TSO E
7357     11-20-1979  331.10
7358     11-20-1979  123.07
7363     12-18-1979  127.01
7364     12-18-1979  307.03
7371     12-18-1979  TSO F
7377     12-27-1979  TSO G
7382     1-29-1980   TSO E
7383     2-5-1980    TSO E
7384     2-5-1980    TSO E
7400     4-1-1980    351.16
7402     4-1-1980    TSO E
7403     4-15-1980   931.20
7413     5-20-1980   313.02
7422     6-24-1980   721.01,
                     721.02
7424     7-15-1980   TSO E
7425     7-15-1980   TSO E
7433     8-19-1980   TSO E
7441     9-16-1980   TSO E
7443     9-16-1980   TSO E
7444     9-16-1980   TSO E
7445     10-21-1980  TSO A
7465     2-3-1981    111.01
7471     3-17-1981   1355.01,
                     1355.04
7472     3-17-1981   103.06
7482     4-21-1981   TSO E
7483     4-21-1981   TSO E
7485     5-5-1981    123.07
7538     1-19-1982   TSO I
7548     4-20-1982   TSO E
7549     4-20-1982   TSO E
7550     4-20-1982   129.04
                     355.01,
                     355.10,
7562     6-15-1982   355.11,
                     355.14 –
                     355.17
7571     7-13-1982   TSO E
7573     7-20-1982   175.02
7583     8-17-1982   191.0302
7588     9-21-1982   121.06
7589     9-21-1982   TSO E
7593     10-5-1982   TSO E
7594     10-5-1982   TSO B
                     709.01 –
                     709.19,
7596     10-26-1982  709.21 –
                     709.35,
                     709.99
                     177.02,
                     371.12,
7598     10-26-1982  713.02,
                     713.05,
                     721.04
7600     11-3-1982   TSO E
7601     11-3-1982   TSO E
7602     11-3-1982   721.05
7613     12-14-1982  TSO E
7624     3-15-1983   121.07
7640     5-31-1983   123.10
7641     5-31-1983   TSO F
7644     5-31-1983   933.02
7651     7-19-1983   355.09
7663     9-6-1983    121.05
                     1337.07,
7671     9-20-1983   1337.08,
                     1337.99
                     1107.04,
7678     11-1-1983   1355.01,
                     1355.05
7691     12-6-1983   129.04
7692     12-20-1983  939.28
7702     1-17-1984   353.04
7709     2-21-1984   TSO E
7712     2-21-1984   TSO B
7718     4-3-1984    TSO A
7722     5-1-1984    TSO D
7760     1-15-1985   177.04
7766     2-19-1985   101.09
7776     5-8-1985    TSO D
7778     5-8-1985    TSO E
7790     8-13-1985   TSO B
7798     9-17-1985   TSO D
7817     2-4-1986    TSO D
7823     5-20-1986   TSO E
7815     7-15-1986   1501.18
                     1501.02 –
7828     7-15-1986   1501.05,
                     1501.13 –
                     1501.16
7832     7-15-1986   1123.02
7842     9-16-1986   TSO A
7846     9-30-1986   121.07
7847     9-30-1986   TSO E
                     1337.01,
7868     3-5-1987    1337.02,
                     1337.04 –
                     1337.06
7875     3-17-1987   TSO E
7880     5-5-1987    TSO A
7882     6-16-1987   105.01 –
                     105.03
7883     6-16-1987   505.09
7894     8-4-1987    TSO E
7895     9-1-1987    TSO A
7898     9-15-1987   195.01
7902     10-20-1987  TSO E
7929     6-7-1988    TSO E
7932     6-7-1988    TSO E
7937     6-21-1988   123.08
7950     10-4-1988   191.1502
7951     11-29-1988  177.07
7964     2-21-1989   1501.14
28-89    7-18-1989   513.05
                     350.01 –
77-89    11-21-1989  350.11,
                     350.13,
                     350.14
4-90     2-6-1990    TSO A
32-90    3-20-1990   513.12
47-90    5-1-1990    501.13
                     717.01 –
60-90    6-19-1990   717.17,
                     717.99
                     719.01 –
61-90    6-19-1990   719.17,
                     719.99
69-90    8-21-1990   513.12
71-90    8-21-1990   TSO A
9-91     1-29-1991   505.12
11-91    2-5-1991    191.1307
                     749.01 –
6-91     2-19-1991   749.03,
                     749.99
24-91    3-5-1991    1101.11,
                     1341.08
                     1105.03,
                     1107.04,
                     1310.01 –
                     1310.08,
                     1311.02,
                     1319.04,
26-91    3-19-1991   1319.05,
                     1329.02,
                     1333.07,
                     1337.03,
                     1345.07,
                     1355.06,
                     1373.07,
                     1375.06
27-91    4-2-1991    121.06
                     131.02,
                     177.08,
48-91    5-21-1991   1347.03,
                     1349.05,
                     1349.06
53-91    6-18-1991   337.31,
                     509.15
64-91    7-23-1991   177.04
86-91    10-15-1991  191.0706.01 –
                     191.0706.07
29-92    3-17-1992   933.01
46-92    5-5-1992    123.06
61-92    6-16-1992   1379.01 –
                     1379.07
62-92    6-16-1992   501.14
63-92    6-16-1992   501.15
45-92    7-21-1992   191.2309
83-92    7-29-1992   TSO E
93-92    9-29-1992   191.0318,
                     191.0901
125-92   12-15-1992  129.03
126-92   12-15-1992  351.18
22-93    3-16-1993   TSO B
28-93    3-30-1993   123.09
32-93    4-20-1993   177.06
36-93    5-4-1993    137.01
52-93    6-15-1993   TSO E
51-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
53-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
54-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
55-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
56-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
68-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
69-93    6-29-1993   TSO E
73-93    7-20-1993   127.07
94-93    9-21-1993   TSO E
98-93    9-21-1993   527.99
104-93   10-7-1993   TSO E
105-93   10-7-1993   TSO E
106-93   10-7-1993   TSO E
107-93   10-7-1993   TSO E
109-93   10-7-1993   TSO E
111-93   10-19-1993  127.05
112-93   10-19-1993  507.01 –
                     507.10
117-93   10-19-1993  501.16
124-93   11-16-1993  TSO E
20-94    2-15-1994   TSO F
52-94    4-19-1994   TSO E
3-94     5-31-1994   TSO E
43-94    5-31-1994   TSO E
45-94    5-31-1994   TSO E
56-94    5-31-1994   TSO E
57-94    5-31-1994   TSO E
68-94    6-21-1994   1125.06
70-94    6-21-1994   729.05
72-94    7-19-1994   TSO E
79-94    7-19-1994   127.05
93-94    9-20-1994   TSO E
94-94    9-20-1994   TSO E
106-94   10-18-1994  1501.14
113-94   11-29-1994  537.23,
                     537.99
16-95    3-21-1995   122.01,
                     123.03
28-95    4-4-1995    TSO E
73-95    7-25-1995   TSO E
74-95    7-25-1995   TSO E
57-95    9-5-1995    TSO A
93-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
94-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
95-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
96-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
97-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
98-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
99-95    9-25-1995   TSO B
88-95    10-3-1995   513.15
118-95   10-31-1995  TSO E
130-95   1-16-1996   TSO E
6-96     2-6-1996    TSO B
7-96     2-6-1996    TSO B
17-96    3-19-1996   123.09
22-96    4-16-1996   TSO E
35-96    5-30-1996   TSO F
32-96    6-4-1996    TSO E
33-96    6-4-1996    TSO E
41-96    6-18-1996   TSO E
52-96    7-30-1996   TSO A
59-96    8-20-1996   TSO E
56-96    8-27-1996   TSO E
57-96    8-27-1996   TSO E
58-96    8-27-1996   TSO E
74-96    9-17-1996   TSO E
19-97    3-18-1997   TSO E
20-97    3-18-1997   TSO E
21-97    3-18-1997   TSO E
56-97    7-15-1997   939.29,
                     939.99
68-97    8-19-1997   TSO E
11-97    10-1-1997   TSO E
79-97    11-18-1997  TSO B
80-97    11-18-1997  TSO B
81-97    11-18-1997  TSO B
98-97    12-16-1997  TSO A
14-98    2-17-1998   177.03
                     927.01 –
24-98    3-17-1998   927.07,
                     927.99
25-98    3-17-1998   1525.01,
                     1525.02
                     1340.01 –
27-98    3-17-1998   1340.14,
                     1340.99
47-98    6-30-1998   505.10
48-98    6-30-1998   351.11
72-98    7-21-1998   129.10 –
                     129.12
89-98    9-15-1998   TSO E
114-98   11-4-1998   127.01
50-99    4-6-1999    TSO E
51-99    4-6-1999    TSO E
112-99   9-21-1999   351.18
165-99   12-21-1999  1151.01 –
                     1151.11
                     1381.01 –
169-99   12-21-1999  1381.11,
                     1381.96 –
                     1381.99
32-00    3-8-2000    1301.14
43-00    4-4-2000    935.01
100-00   7-18-2000   TSO E
101-00   7-18-2000   TSO E
162-00   10-17-2000  TSO F
163-00   10-17-2000  TSO F
186-00   12-19-2000  191.2501 –
                     191.2506
07-01    3-6-2001    TSO E
08-01    3-6-2001    TSO E
55-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
56-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
57-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
58-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
59-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
60-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
61-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
62-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
63-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
64-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
65-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
66-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
67-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
68-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
69-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
70-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
71-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
72-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
73-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
74-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
75-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
76-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
77-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
78-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
79-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
80-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
81-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
82-01    4-5-2001    TSO E
110-01   6-5-2001    TSO E
114-01   6-5-2001    1333.03
123-01   7-17-2001   127.05
142-01   8-21-2001   TSO E
143-01   8-21-2001   TSO E
144-01   8-21-2001   TSO E
147-01   8-21-2001   TSO E
176-01   8-21-2001   141.01
196-01   8-21-2001   350.12
212-01   10-3-2001   557.01 –
                     557.18
215-01   10-3-2001   177.04
95-02    6-4-2002    529.12
10-03    1-21-2003   TSO E
51-03    4-15-2003   373.13
52-03    4-15-2003   513.15
53-03    4-15-2003   513.16
54-03    4-15-2003   533.091
55-03    4-15-2003   537.24,
                     537.99
106-03   6-17-2003   931.10
107-03   6-17-2003   931.13
120-03   7-15-2003   177.04
127-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
128-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
129-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
130-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
131-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
132-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
137-03   7-15-2003   TSO E
150-03   9-2-2003    123.08
154-03   9-2-2003    123.08
155-03   9-2-2003    121.04
156-03   9-2-2003    123.09
165-03   9-2-2003    123.09
228-03   1-20-2004   121.10
19-04    2-17-2004   Ch. 113
55-04    4-20-2004   931.21
59-04    5-4-2004    TSO F
64-04    5-4-2004    129.13
98-04    6-29-2004   1315.01
103-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
104-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
105-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
106-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
107-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
108-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
109-04   7-20-2004   Ch. 113
112-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
113-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
114-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
116-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
118-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
119-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
120-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
121-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
122-04   7-20-2004   TSO E
115-04   8-17-2004   TSO E
136-04   8-17-2004   351.14
82-04    12-7-2004   307.06
148-04   12-21-2004  191.0705
185-04   1-4-2005    TSO F
24-05    3-2-2005    945.01
68-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
69-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
70-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
71-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
72-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
75-05    5-3-2005    TSO E
56-04    5-4-2005    TSO F
104-05   7-19-2005   TSO E
134-05   10-5-2005   TSO E
160-05   10-5-2005   1305.01
161-05   10-5-2005   1308.02
157-05   11-1-2005   TSO E
173-05   11-1-2005   TSO E
193-05   12-20-2005  TSO G
07-06    2-8-2006    313.011
42-06    6-20-2006   TSO E
39-06    7-18-2006   191.1101
63-06    8-15-2006   TSO E
87-06    12-19-2006  143.01 –
                     143.04
70-06    3-6-2007    701.01 –
                     701.06
                     1334.02 –
14-2007  3-12-2007   1334.04,
                     1334.14
                     1335.07 –
15-2007  3-12-2007   1335.09,
                     1335.11 –
                     1335.14
51-07    6-28-2007   103.02
52-07    7-17-2007   123.07
44-07    8-21-2007   1501.17
45-07    8-21-2007   1501.20
46-07    8-21-2007   1501.99
30-07    9-4-2007    1123.03
31-07    9-4-2007    1123.01
32-07    9-4-2007    1123.01
01-08    2-19-2008   921.08
                     923.01 –
04-08    2-19-2008   923.10,
                     923.99
05-08    2-19-2008   921.01 –
                     921.07
08-08    3-3-2008    513.03
07-08    3-5-2008    513.02
16-08    4-1-2008    107.01 –
                     107.06
17-08    4-1-2008    103.02
                     139.01 –
26-08    6-3-2008    139.15,
                     139.99
37-08    6-17-2008   127.02
30-08    7-15-2008   Ch. 113
46-08    8-19-2008   127.01
77-08    10-21-2008  111.03
94-08    12-2-2008   1101.36
95-08    12-2-2008   1123.01
96-08    12-2-2008   1123.03
97-08    12-2-2008   1125.10,
                     1125.99
20-09    2-17-2009   TSO J
53-08    2-17-2009   1350.01 –
                     1350.16
25-09    4-7-2009    1501.20
                     1382.01 –
15-09    6-2-2009    1382.17,
                     1382.99
63-09    9-1-2009    TSO J
73-09    10-20-2009  177.04
99-09    12-1-2009   337.99
100-09   12-1-2009   337.27
101-09   12-1-2009   337.26
02-10    2-16-2010   Ch. 113
03-10    2-16-2010   Ch. 113
07-10    5-5-2010    1337.01
08-10    5-5-2010    1337.02
09-10    5-5-2010    1337.03
28-10    5-5-2010    333.03
74-10    8-17-2010   Ch. 113
32-10    8-23-2010   123.02
38-10    9-8-2010    509.08
43-10    9-8-2010    941.01
44-10    9-8-2010    931.10
50-10    9-21-2010   1333.01
108-10   12-7-2010   123.09
11-11    2-15-2011   123.09
12-11    2-15-2011   123.09
13-11    3-1-2011    121.06
                     710.01 –
28-11    4-19-2011   710.09,
                     710.99
50-11    7-19-2011   558.01 –
                     558.22
47-11    8-16-2011   TSO A
67-11    9-20-2011   Ch. 113
46-11    12-6-2011   533.16
80-11    12-6-2011   537.22,
                     537.99
05-12    4-12-2012   303.99
06-12    4-12-2012   333.01
07-12    4-12-2012   335.072
08-12    4-12-2012   335.01
09-12    4-12-2012   335.02
10-12    4-12-2012   335.05
11-12    4-12-2012   335.06
12-12    4-12-2012   335.07
13-12    4-12-2012   335.071
14-12    4-12-2012   335.073
15-12    4-12-2012   335.12
16-12    4-12-2012   335.13
17-12    4-12-2012   335.14
18-12    4-12-2012   337.02
24-12    4-24-2012   105.04
53-12    7-31-2012   Charter
75-12    7-31-2012   Charter
79-12    9-4-2012    Ch. 113
02-12    9-18-2012   939.30
14-14    3-18-2014   Ch. 113
44-14    10-21-2014  105.04
                     192.001 –
                     192.021,
                     192.035 –
                     192.039,
                     192.050,
52-15    11-4-2015   192.051,
                     192.060 –
                     192.063,
                     192.075 –
                     192.077,
                     192.999
05-16    7-19-2016   Charter
06-16    7-19-2016   Charter
13-16    10-4-2016   929.01 –
                     929.07
14-16    10-18-2016  TSO F
16-16    11-10-2016  TSO A
17-16    11-10-2016  TSO A
                     1335.01 –
04-17    3-30-2017   1335.15,
                     1335.99
                     1334.01 –
05-17    3-30-2017   1334.18,
                     1334.99
06-17    3-30-2017   1336.01 –
                     1336.11
10-17    4-18-2017   1350.04
14-17    6-6-2017    1349.01,
                     1349.05
15-17    6-6-2017    1347.01,
                     1347.03
16-17    6-6-2017    1347.01,
                     1347.03
01-18    2-20-2018   TSO A
02-18    2-20-2018   TSO A
04-18    4-3-2018    123.03
05-18    4-3-2018    1375.08
06-18    4-3-2018    1349.08
07-18    5-31-2018   313.011
12-18    7-17-2018   TSO A
17-18    9-18-2018   527.17
19-18    - -2018     1351.04
01-19    2-5-2019    1381.03
02-19    2-5-2019    1381.05
20-19    4-2-2019    333.01
21-19    4-2-2019    517.06
23-19    6-4-2019    1501.17
24-19    5-7-2019    123.03
26-19    6-4-2019    TSO G
31-19    7-10-2019   1351.04
50-19    12-17-2019  177.09
03-20    1-21-2020   1351.04
                     1310.01,
13-20    6-22-2020   1301.03 –
                     1301.08
16-20    6-2-2020    1381.03
17-20    6-2-2020    356.01,
                     356.99
                    
 
